<div><h1 id="ch1">CHAPTER I<br/> <span class="sub-head">Ice-Boating on the Bay</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Driven</span> by a stiff breeze from the west, a
trim little ice-boat went scudding over the
frozen surface of Barmet Bay. The winter air
was cold and clear, the hills rising from the
shores were blanketed in snow, and although a
patch of black water away off toward the east
gave evidence that King Frost had been balked
at the Atlantic, the bay itself was a gleaming
sheet of ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">The long cold snap had caused rejoicing in
the hearts of the young folk of Bayport. Although
the ice in mid-bay was not solid, along
the shore and in the numerous coves of the indented
bay it was frozen to a safe depth. The
dark figures of skaters sped like swallows in
flight on the miniature natural rinks close to
shore, and farther out the speeding ice-boats
with their billowing sails resembled huge sea
gulls as they raced before the wind.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank Hardy, a dark, handsome boy of sixteen,
was at the tiller of the craft that represented
several weeks’ hard work on the part of
himself and his brother Joe. Although it was
homemade, the ice-boat was staunch and
stoutly built and as it sped over the gleaming
surface the boys were justifiably proud of their
handiwork.</p>
<p class="pindent">“This is great!” shouted Frank. “Ice-boating
beats motor-boating all to pieces.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe, a fair, curly-haired youngster who was a
year Frank’s junior, was sitting forward with
their chum, Chet Morton.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll say it is!” he agreed. “I don’t think
there’s a faster boat on the bay.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet, plump and good-natured, his round face
red with cold and shining like a full moon,
kicked up his heels in ecstasy and nearly went
overboard as the boat swerved to avoid an ice
hummock ahead.</p>
<p class="pindent">“This is real speed!” he declared, scrambling
back to safety. “No traffic cops out here,
either.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Glad to-morrow is Saturday,” said Frank.
“We can spend the whole day out here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And the holidays!” exclaimed Joe. “Don’t
forget the Christmas holidays. Only another
week.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m glad you reminded me,” Chet called
out. “I had clean forgotten about them.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The others laughed. In his desk at school,
Chet had a small calendar, and as each day
passed he carefully stroked out the date and
hopefully counted the days that remained before
vacation.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What say we go camping when the holidays
come?” he suggested.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Camping!” Frank exclaimed. “Camping
is for summer time.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just as much fun in winter. There are lots
of shacks and cottages along shore. We could
rent one for a couple of weeks. One with a
fireplace and a stove. With lots of firewood and
blankets and grub we’d be as comfortable as we
could wish—and think of the fun we’d have ice-boating.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Say, that’s a mighty good idea,” ventured
Joe. “Sometimes you do use your head for
something besides putting your hat on it. What
do you think, Frank?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I think that Chet has had a real idea—for
once in his life.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet grinned good-naturedly at this chaff of
his comrades.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, if it’s a good idea, let’s carry it
through.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Further discussion of the proposal was interrupted
just then by the appearance of two
large ice-boats racing out of one of the coves
almost even with each other.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A race!” shouted Frank. “Let’s go.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He maneuvered the boat around and waited
until the other boats were abreast, jockeying
to get the full benefit of the wind. Then, when
all three boats were on a line, they shot forward.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys in the other craft waved to the
Hardy boys and shouted. On down the bay,
over the smooth surface, sped the trio. The
lad at the tiller of the biggest boat, over to the
left, became excited and his craft swung around
broadside. By the time he got around with the
wind again his rivals had forged steadily ahead
and he saw that it was almost hopeless to attempt
to overtake them.</p>
<p class="pindent">The remaining craft had an advantage over
the Hardy boys’ boat in that it had been constructed
by a professional builder in Bayport.
Its lines were trim and graceful and it had a
wider spread of canvas. But the boy at the
tiller found that he could not shake off the
homemade boat that scudded persistently
alongside.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank was taking advantage of every changing
gust of wind. The breeze was changing and
he tacked to starboard, allowing his rival a momentary
burst of speed that left the Hardy boys
trailing in the rear.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Too bad!” muttered Chet. “Can’t beat
<span class="it">that</span> boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just wait and see,” advised Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">The changing breeze filled the sail and again
the ice-boat sprang forward. The other craft
was slowing down, and the steersman was desperately
trying to bring it about with the wind
again. But he was too late. The Hardy boys’
boat swept triumphantly across his bow and
Chet gave a shout of delight. On down the bay
sped the little craft and by the time the other
boat’s sails were billowing again the lads were
far in the lead. Looking back, they saw the
beaten rival slowly turning about into the wind,
heading back up the bay.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s real seamanship!” declared Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, well, we have a good boat,” returned
Frank, refusing to claim any credit for the victory.
“We were lucky the wind changed.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Ahead of them loomed a high, gloomy cliff,
rising sheer from the ice. Beyond that, they
knew, was one of the largest coves on Barmet
Bay, known as Cabin Cove.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s go on and take a look at Cabin
Island,” suggested Chet. “Seeing we’re so
close to the place we might as well pay it a
visit.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure thing,” approved the others.</p>
<p class="pindent">Cabin Island, in Cabin Cove, was a lonely
spot, even more desolate now that the bay was
locked in ice. It was seldom visited, even in
the summer months, because it was an inhospitable
place, with high cliffs rising almost directly
from the water, with only a few landing
places that were difficult of access.</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys had often wanted to visit the
island in the summer, but their motorboat, the
<span class="it">Sleuth</span>, was too large to be maneuvered among
the rocks that skirted the lonely shore, without
running danger of being dashed to pieces by the
angry waves.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We won’t have any trouble making a landing
now,” said Frank. “We can bring the
ice-boat right up to the base of the cliffs until
we find a place where it is possible to climb to
the top.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The island was heavily covered with timber,
and at one time it had been inhabited, for a big
log cabin had been constructed on an eminence
overlooking the bay. From this cabin, the island
had derived its name. The cabin was deserted
now, and to the boys’ knowledge no one
had lived there for the past five years, either
in summer or winter.</p>
<p class="pindent">The ice-boat swung around the point, the
cliffs lowering bleakly overhead, and they sped
down into the great cove.</p>
<p class="pindent">Cabin Island, dark and austere, lay before
them, the ice gleaming on every side. The
evergreen timber rose above the white snow,
and at the southern end of the island the cabin
could be plainly seen.</p>
<p class="pindent">Within a few minutes, the ice-boat was speeding
along in the lee of the island, close to the
steep walls of rock. The boys eagerly scanned
the cliffs in the hope of finding a landing place.</p>
<p class="pindent">At last Frank gave a murmur of satisfaction
and steered the craft toward a break in the
cliff. Here there was a small ravine and against
the background of snow the boys distinctly saw
a path that wound up the sloping side of the
ravine toward the cabin above.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Thought there’d be a landing place here
somewhere,” he said.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Queer,” said Chet, eyeing the path. “Must
be some one on that island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“There are footprints, sure enough.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It snowed three days ago. There must have
been some one here since then,” Joe observed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Probably some other chaps came out here
in an ice-boat,” said Frank carelessly. “If
that’s the case, they’ve been kind enough to
break trail for us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He guided the ice-boat into the little bay and
its sail flapped idly as it came to a stop just a
few feet from shore. The boys hopped out on
to the ice and stretched their legs, then anchored
the craft and made it secure. The little bay
was sheltered from the wind. It was a natural
harbor, and evidently the owner of the island
had built his cabin where he did because of this
ideal landing place that in summer was almost
hidden from view by the overhanging trees.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank was examining the footprints leading
toward the upper level.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Only one set of footprints here,” he said.
“They seem quite fresh, too. I wonder if any
one is up there now.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Must be,” returned Joe. “The footprints
lead up the hill, but there is none leading
back.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps he went down the other side,”
Chet suggested. “Well, we can’t let that scare
us away. Let’s go.”</p>
<p class="pindent">With Frank in the lead, the boys began to
ascend the winding path, following those mysterious
footprints in the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">They were about halfway up the side of the
ravine when suddenly a dark figure appeared
from behind a clump of trees a few yards
ahead. A surly-looking man, black-browed and
swarthy, advanced toward them, striding
through the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What are you doing here?” he demanded
in a rasping voice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just thought we’d explore the island, sir,”
answered Frank. “We hope you don’t mind.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I do mind!” retorted the stranger curtly.
“Get away from here and stay away. I don’t
allow visitors.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“But——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No argument!” he snapped. “You’re
trespassing here. Get away, now. Make
tracks.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We won’t damage anything,” piped Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Do you hear me? Get off this island at
once! Clear out, and be quick about it!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The stranger glared at them angrily. Frank
saw that nothing would be gained by arguing
the matter. He shrugged.</p>
<p class="pindent">“All right, sir.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Thanks for the hospitality!” sang out
Chet, as the boys turned about and retraced
their steps down the path.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch2">CHAPTER II<br/> <span class="sub-head">Heading for Trouble</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">“Something</span> queer about this business,” said
Frank Hardy, as the three boys went back toward
their ice-boat. “I don’t see why he should
be so anxious to keep visitors off his old island.
We weren’t doing any harm.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s a crab!” declared Chet. “Who is he,
anyway?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I think his name is Jefferson,” said Joe.
“Elroy Jefferson. I’ve heard that he owns
Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Jefferson,” said Frank reflectively. “I’ve
heard that name before.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Of course you have. He’s an antique
dealer. Sort of queer old codger, from all accounts.
We saved his automobile for him, don’t
you remember?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, now I know where I heard his name!”
exclaimed Frank. “You’re right. He lives in
a big house up the Shore Road.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure. His car was one of those stolen when
the auto thieves were busy on the Shore Road.
We found it in the cave when we rounded up
the gang.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The incident to which Joe referred was the
climax of one of the numerous mysteries solved
by the Hardy boys. The brothers, who were introduced
to our readers in the first volume of
this series, entitled: “The Hardy Boys: The
Tower Treasure,” were the sons of a celebrated
American detective, Fenton Hardy by
name, and had already won considerable fame
for themselves in and about their home city of
Bayport by reason of their success in solving
a number of mysteries that had baffled the local
police.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe, although still in high school,
were anxious to follow in their father’s footsteps.
Fenton Hardy was a hero to them. For
many years he had been connected with the detective
bureau of the New York police department,
where he had earned such distinction that
he was able to resign and move to Bayport,
there to accept cases as a private investigator.
Internationally famous, he was frequently
called in to solve mysteries that had been given
up by the police in all parts of the country, as
well as accepting other assignments in which
police action was not desired.</p>
<p class="pindent">Already the two boys showed that they had
inherited much of their father’s ability. They
were sharp, observant and intelligent enough
to draw shrewd deductions from small clues.</p>
<p class="pindent">In the volume immediately preceding the
present story, “The Hardy Boys: The Secret
of the Caves,” the lads tackled a mystery that
even Fenton Hardy had not been able to solve,
the disappearance of an aged college professor,
and had eventually found the old man after a
series of thrilling adventures on a lonely part
of the Atlantic coast.</p>
<p class="pindent">“So that’s Elroy Jefferson, is it?” said
Frank. “Pleasant sort of customer, isn’t he?
He didn’t treat us very well, considering we
saved his automobile for him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps he doesn’t know you,” suggested
Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s possible. I remember now. He was
in Europe at the time of the car-stealing affair.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps this chap isn’t Mr. Jefferson at
all,” put in Joe. “He may have sold the island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, whoever he is, I don’t think much of
him. What did he think we were going to do?
Burn down his cabin?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet laughed. “I guess he doesn’t want his
nice, pretty island all tracked up. Well, I suppose
there’s nothing for us but to go home. It’s
getting late, anyway.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys scrambled into the ice-boat. Before
they started off, however, Frank looked
back up against the lonely cabin, silhouetted at
the top of the cliff against the dreary winter
sky. The man who had driven them away was
nowhere in sight.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t get it out of my head that there’s
something strange about this business,” he
said. “I’d like to know why he was so anxious
to chase us away.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Aw, you see a mystery in everything,”
scoffed Chet. “He’s just a cranky old chap
who likes to show his authority. I’ll bet he
even tries to boss the rabbits and the snowbirds
on the island. Let’s go!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The ice-boat moved slowly away from Cabin
Island and the boys soon forgot their disappointment
in the exhilaration of swift flight
across the ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">They swept out of the cove, around the rocky
point, out into the bay. Far ahead of them lay
Bayport, its towers and spires shining in the
sunset. It was getting colder, and the wind
stung their faces to a rosy glow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If we go camping in the holidays!” shouted
Frank, “I guess Cabin Island is off our list, at
any rate.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It would be a mighty fine place to camp,”
said Joe regretfully. “It’s too bad Mr. Jefferson
is such a crank. A good-hearted chap would
let us live in his old cabin during the holidays.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” remarked Chet, “this particular
chap isn’t at all good-hearted, so I suppose
we’ll just have to hunt up another camping
spot.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys were silent. Cabin Island would
have been an ideal place for their outing. It
would be difficult to find another cabin as well
constructed and so near Bayport.</p>
<p class="pindent">Suddenly, Chet pointed ahead.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Look at that ice-boat!” he exclaimed.
“Must be a crazy man steering it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Away in the distance they could see a large
craft, twisting and turning in an erratic
fashion. It would speed in a straight course
for a hundred yards or so, then it would commence
to zigzag crazily, at times veering over
until the sail was almost level with the ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’ll break his mast or his rudder,” opined
Frank. “Then he won’t be so smart, when he
finds himself stranded about three miles from
town. A chap who will handle a boat like that
doesn’t deserve to have one.”</p>
<p class="pindent">However, the other craft seemed to be standing
up under the senseless strain being imposed
on it. It was a larger boat than that of the
Hardy boys, and it was able to withstand mishandling
that would have wrecked a smaller
craft.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys did not alter their course, for they
were some distance to leeward and under ordinary
circumstances would not pass within
shouting distance of the big boat. However, as
they sped on, Frank saw that the other craft
had ceased zigzagging and was now bearing toward
them. Its huge sail was full and it was
gathering speed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That big boat can certainly travel!” exclaimed
Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll say it can. If he doesn’t change his
course that chap will travel right into us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">As the big boat drew nearer the boys saw
that there were two men on board. Frank mentally
checked over the various ice-boats he had
seen on the bay and thought he recognized the
approaching boat as belonging to Tad Carson
and Ike Nash, two young men of unsavory repute
in the city. They were loud-mouthed, insolent
fellows who had never been known to do
a day’s work, and it was a mystery how they
had managed to raise sufficient money to buy
the ice-boat in which they were now amusing
themselves.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’d better change his course,” said Joe
nervously. “He’s heading right toward us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not if I know it,” said Frank. “If he won’t
change, then I will.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He bore down on the tiller and their ice-boat
swung around out of the path of the other.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then, to their amazement and consternation,
the lads saw that the big craft had also swung
around and that it was still hurtling forward
at terrific speed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“They’re going to run us down!” shouted
Chet, in alarm.</p>
<p class="pindent">The big boat was only fifty yards away. The
lads could see Ike Nash at the tiller, his mouth
open in an ugly grin.</p>
<p class="pindent">In another moment, the big craft would
crash broadside into the small boat, and so
great was its speed that the Hardy boys’ boat
would certainly be wrecked beyond repair and
it was possible that the boys themselves might
be seriously injured.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then they saw Ike bear down on the tiller
again, evidently trying to avert the catastrophe
at the last minute. It had been a crude practical
joke on his part, to frighten the lads.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then he looked up, his face frightened, and
shouted.</p>
<p class="pindent">The tiller had not responded!</p>
<p class="pindent">The big ice-boat did not change course. It
was booming down on the smaller craft at terrific
speed!</p>
<div><h1 id="ch3">CHAPTER III<br/> <span class="sub-head">A Strange Note</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Had</span> it not been for Frank Hardy’s coolness
and presence of mind, there would have been a
disastrous collision.</p>
<p class="pindent">His quick hand at the tiller averted the crash
by a hairbreadth. How he did it, he could not
later explain. At the time, Chet and Joe could
see no possible chance of escape. But, just as
the collision seemed imminent, their craft
veered off to one side and the other boat went
booming past at terrific speed, the two ice-boats
so close together that their sides almost
touched.</p>
<p class="pindent">It was a narrow escape. Frank had swung
the nose of his boat around just in the nick of
time.</p>
<p class="pindent">He brought the craft around in a circle, for
the boys were in no mind to let the affront pass.
Then they saw that the other boat had overturned.
The boy at the helm, frightened by the
imminence of peril, had lost his nerve, had
swung the boat too far over, and it had gone
on its side. The mast had snapped. The boat
was wrecked.</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys and Chet Morton went back
to the scene. Tad Carson and Ike Nash were
just crawling out from under their capsized
craft.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the big idea?” roared Nash, in an
ugly humor. “Now see what you’ve done. You
might have killed us!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Take some of that for yourself,” rejoined
Frank, walking over. “It was your own fault.
You tried to run us down.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Run you down! I like that! You head
straight for us and then say we tried to run you
down. You’ve smashed our boat, so you have,
and you’ll pay for it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Try to collect!” advised Chet airily. “By
rights, we ought to have you up in court. Trying
to be smart, weren’t you?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Both the other boys were bigger than Chet,
but this never bothered that boy—as long as
some one was with him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Absolutely deliberate, wasn’t it, Tad?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You bet!” said Carson. “The young brats
drove right at us. If they had hit us we might
have been killed.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Their cool effrontery amazed the Hardy
boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’ve got a lot of nerve,” snapped Joe.
“Trying to lay the blame on us. It serves you
right to have your boat smashed up. You
would have smashed ours if we hadn’t been
lucky. After this, watch where you’re going.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Look here!” said Ike Nash truculently,
doubling his fists and stepping forward. “I
won’t stand talk like that from you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No?” said Frank, edging over to Joe’s
side, and doubling his fists as well. “What are
you going to do about it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes,” added Chet, trying to achieve a
threatening expression, “what are you going
to do about it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Ike and Tad surveyed the three lads who
stood facing them, with fists ready. Like most
bullies, they were cowards, and now that their
bluff had been called they were not anxious to
risk a battle that might prove the worse for
them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’ll find out what we’ll do about it,”
growled Ike. “As for me, I wouldn’t waste my
time thrashing you, although you need it
mighty bad——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure,” agreed Tad Carson quickly. “I
wouldn’t lower myself to lick you. Just a pack
of babies, that’s all. You oughtn’t to be allowed
out on the bay when you can’t handle a
boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s your boat that got smashed,” Chet reminded
them cheerfully. “How was that for
handling?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Come on,” said Ike. “Don’t talk to the
brats, Tad. What’s the use wasting time on
them?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s what I say,” agreed his companion,
and they returned loftily to their smashed boat,
trying to conceal their chagrin.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Want a ride back?” chirped Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You clear out of here, or we’ll smash your
boat too.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s go,” advised Frank. “They’re in a
bad humor. It wasn’t our fault. I think we
were lucky to escape so easily. If our boat had
been smashed they would have just laughed
at us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The lads scrambled back into their ice-boat
and in a few minutes they were sailing up the
bay again, past the wreckage of the other
craft. Ike Nash and Tad Carson were clumsily
trying to put it to rights.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’ll teach ’em to go around scaring
people,” observed Chet Morton virtuously, as
they flashed by. He waved ironically at the marooned
sportsmen, and was rewarded only by a
shake of the fist from Ike Nash.</p>
<p class="pindent">In a short time, the lads were back at Bayport,
and, having placed the ice-boat in its
berth, they walked up the snow-covered street
toward the Hardy home. This was a fine brick
residence on High Street, with a garage where
the boys kept their motorcycles and the decrepit
auto they had bought with their savings
and which had been of so much value in solving
the Shore Road mystery of the stolen automobiles,
as recounted in the volume of that title.
At the rear was a barn, which had been fitted
up as a gymnasium, where the Hardy boys and
their chums spent many happy hours on rainy
and stormy Saturdays.</p>
<p class="pindent">When the Hardy boys said good-bye to Chet
Morton and entered the house they were
greeted by Aunt Gertrude, a peppery, dictatorial
lady of certain temper and uncertain
years, who was again with the Hardys for a
visit of indeterminate length. Aunt Gertrude
could never reconcile herself to the idea that
the boys were growing up and persisted in
treating them as though they were still infants,
or, as Joe expressed it, “as if we were half-witted.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Go back and stamp the snow off your
shoes!” she ordered, as they tramped into the
hall. “It’s a disgrace, the way you two boys
track up this house just as soon as I’ve got
everything all cleaned up.”</p>
<p class="pindent">There was very little snow on the boys’ boots,
and Aunt Gertrude never, under any circumstances,
assisted in the house cleaning, but it
was her nature to give orders. The boys knew
better than to disobey, so they meekly returned
to the vestibule and stamped their shoes, then
came back into the hall.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s better,” said their aunt grudgingly.
“Now go into the library. Your father is waiting
for you. You should have been home hours
ago. I declare I don’t know where you spend
your time. Just gallivanting around when you
should be at home doing your studies.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys went on into the library. The door
was open and when they entered they found
their father, Fenton Hardy, the noted detective,
perusing an imposing grist of legal documents
at his desk. He glanced up and smiled at them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hello, sons! Been out on the bay?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes, sir,” returned Frank. “Out in the
ice-boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Good, healthy sport. Have a good time?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, yes. We went away down as far as
Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Cabin Island, eh? That’s strange. I’ve had
Cabin Island in my mind for the past hour or
more. There has been a message here, waiting
for you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“A message?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Mr. Hardy reached into his desk and produced
an envelope.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A man called here this afternoon and left
this message for you boys.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“But why should it remind you of Cabin Island,
Dad?” asked Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Because the man who left the message here
was Elroy Jefferson’s chauffeur.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Elroy Jefferson!” exclaimed Frank.
“Why, he is the man who owns Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“So I believe. Well, there’s the note, at any
rate. Better read it and find out what he has
to say.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank tore open the envelope and removed a
folded slip of paper. There were a few type-written
words. He and Joe read them with
growing amazement.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, what do you know about that?” exclaimed
Frank finally.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder what’s the idea?” said his brother.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank handed the note over to their father.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What do you make of it, Dad?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Fenton Hardy read the note. He looked
puzzled. Then he handed it back to the boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t say, I’m sure,” he said. “It’s a
strange note. Still, I suppose you had better
do as he asks, and then you’ll know more about
it later.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We certainly will!” said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then he read the note over again.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch4">CHAPTER IV<br/> <span class="sub-head">Holiday Plans</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">The</span> note which puzzled the Hardy boys was
as follows:</p>
<div class="blockquote">
<div class="lgl" style=""> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line">“Messrs. Frank and Joseph Hardy,</p>
<p class="line">Bayport.</p>
<p class="line"> </p>
<p class="line">“<span class="sc">Dear Sirs</span>:</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->
<p class="pindent">“If it is convenient for you to call upon me at my
residence to-morrow I should like to talk to you about
a matter that has been in my mind since my return
from Europe. If you will be good enough to call
early to-morrow afternoon I will explain further.</p>
<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:4em;">Yours very truly,</p>
<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;"><span class="sc">Elroy Jefferson</span>.”</p>
</div>
<p class="pindent">“A matter that has been in his mind ever
since his return from Europe,” said Frank.
“I wonder what it can be.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, we recovered his automobile for him
from the Shore Road thieves,” ventured Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What has that to do with it?” asked Fenton
Hardy, smiling.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Mr. Jefferson wasn’t in Bayport at the
time. You remember, we got a big reward for
clearing up that case and the owners of the
stolen cars contributed to it. But as Mr. Jefferson
was away, he wasn’t in on that. Perhaps
he wants to add to it,” said Joe hopefully.</p>
<p class="pindent">Fenton Hardy shook his head in amusement.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I thought you did very well. Surely you
aren’t looking for more money.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, we’re not <span class="it">looking</span> for more. Still, if
Mr. Jefferson feels hurt because he couldn’t
show his appreciation, why, we wouldn’t turn
down any offer,” and Joe grinned.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know Mr. Jefferson,” said Frank.
“What’s he like, Dad?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He is an antique dealer,” returned Mr.
Hardy. “He is quite well known in his own
field. He travels in Europe a great deal, buying
antiques. Of late years he has kept very
much to himself. I believe he has made a great
deal of money, and in his time he was one of the
leading experts in antique furniture in the
country.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Isn’t he still an expert?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, yes. But he isn’t as prominent as he
once was. Something happened to him a few
years ago that made the old fellow very queer.
I don’t remember exactly what it was; but
since that time he has been something of a
character.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sounds interesting,” commented Joe.
“Well, I guess we’d better go and see him to-morrow,
hadn’t we, Frank?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure thing. We can ask him why he keeps
such a tough-looking watchman on Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“A watchman?” exclaimed Fenton Hardy.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes. We landed there this afternoon and a
man told us to clear out. Said we were trespassing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That doesn’t sound like Elroy Jefferson,”
said Mr. Hardy. “I’m sure he wouldn’t give
any such orders. As far as I remember him, he
has always been a rather kindly old chap.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We thought perhaps he had sold the island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I haven’t heard of its changing hands. I
can’t imagine why he would have a watchman
there in the winter, anyway. Ask him about it
when you see him to-morrow.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The next morning, although the boys had
discussed the note from Mr. Jefferson many
times, they had still failed to arrive at any
satisfactory conclusion as to the reason why he
should want them to call on him; so they were
awaiting the interview with curiosity and expectation.</p>
<p class="pindent">That morning, while on an errand downtown
for their mother, the brothers met Callie Shaw
and Iola Morton. Both girls attended the Bayport
high school and were in the same grade as
the Hardy boys. Callie, a brown-eyed, brown-haired
girl, was Frank’s particular favorite
among the girls at school, while Iola, plump and
dark, Chet Morton’s sister, was the only girl
who had ever won even a reluctant admiration
from the bashful Joe, who had even gone so far
as to admit that she was “all right—as a girl.”
Which, from Joe, was high praise.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, it’s good to see you alive!” exclaimed
Callie. “From what we’ve been hearing, it’s
lucky you’re able to come downtown at all to-day.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes,” chimed in Iola, “Chet has been telling
me all about it. I should think you’d have
been patting yourself on the back ever since.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys looked at one another blankly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What yarn has Chet been springing now?”
asked Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No yarn. He was telling us how narrowly
you all escaped being killed out on the bay yesterday
afternoon.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, that!” laughed Frank. “It wasn’t so
bad. We might have got bumped about a bit,
but we were lucky.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s letting <span class="it">you</span> tell it!” exclaimed Iola.
“Chet says that if it hadn’t been for the way
you handled that ice-boat, Frank, there would
have been a terrible smash-up.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, Chet usually exaggerates,” said Frank
uncomfortably.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re too modest,” put in Callie quickly.
“He told us all about it. I think you deserve a
lot of credit, Frank.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You bet he does!” cried Joe warmly, oblivious
of his brother’s embarrassment. “He
saved our lives.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And as for those other boys!” continued
Callie. “If that Ike Nash or Tad Carson ever
dare speak to me again I’ll go past them with
my nose in the air. Won’t you, Iola?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I certainly will. And I’m going to tell the
other girls about it, too. I think it was mean of
them, and I’m glad their old boat got smashed.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, I guess they’ve suffered enough,” said
Frank. “No use rubbing it in.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“If they had smashed your boat they would
have told the story all over Bayport. I’m certainly
glad it turned out the way it did,” said
Callie.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Drat that Chet,” muttered Frank, after the
girls had gone on down the street. “Why can’t
he keep quiet? He’ll be making me out a hero
if he keeps up. I didn’t want anything said
about that affair.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, only two girls know about it now,”
returned Joe, comfortingly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“<span class="it">Only</span> two girls!” snorted Frank. “He
might as well have published it in the newspaper.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Nevertheless he was inwardly pleased by
Callie’s evident concern over his narrow escape
and by her admiration of the way he had acquitted
himself in the emergency.</p>
<p class="pindent">That afternoon, immediately after lunch, the
Hardy boys set out for the handsome Jefferson
home on the Shore Road. The place was not
far away, and as the snow was too deep to permit
of using their motorcycles, the boys went on
foot. Before they had come within sight of the
place they met a chum, Biff Hooper, who frequently
accompanied the Hardy boys on their
adventures.</p>
<p class="pindent">They found Biff, who was pugilistically inclined,
dancing about in the snow, making wild
dashes and lunges at an imaginary sparring
partner. He did not see Frank and Joe at first
and when they came up to him he had evidently
just put the finishing touches to the invisible
antagonist, for he was breathing heavily and,
as he looked down into the snow, he was counting!
“Seven—eight—nine—ten—Out!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hurrah for the new champion!” shouted
Joe. “Did you knock him out, Biff?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff swung around quickly and looked very
foolish.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just doing a little shadow-boxing,” he explained,
very red in the face. “I didn’t hear
you coming.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Practising to clean up on the championship?”
asked Frank pleasantly. “Whoever he
was, you knocked him right off the map.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Say,” said Biff, anxious to change the subject,
“I’ve been wanting to see you fellows.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looking for a fight?” asked Joe. “Sorry,
but we’ve decided not to do any fighting until
after Christmas because Santa Claus mightn’t
like it and then he wouldn’t put anything in our
stockings. You want to be careful, Biff. If
Santa hears you’ve been shadow-boxing out in
the main road you mightn’t get any lollipops
on Christmas Eve.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Aw, dry up,” grumbled Biff. “I’ve been
wanting to see you—no kidding.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What about?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What are you going to do in the Christmas
holidays?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Don’t know,” replied Frank. “We haven’t
made any plans yet. I guess we’ll just hang
around town. We’ve got the ice-boat, and
there’ll be some skating.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How about an outing of some kind? I’ve
had that in my mind for the past two or three
days. Don’t you think we could all get away
somewhere and go camping.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sounds good,” approved Joe. “Where
shall we camp?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know. I thought you chaps could
look after that end of it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It isn’t so easy to go camping in winter. In
summer there are lots of places.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, think it over,” said Biff. “If you
think of a good place and decide to go, be sure
and let me know. I’d like to be in on it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure thing. We wouldn’t leave you out,
Biff.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“If we could get away right after school
closes we could have a good long holiday in
camp.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How about Christmas?” inquired Joe
doubtfully. “We shouldn’t want to miss
Christmas, should we?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Worrying about your presents?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’d hate to miss them.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Maybe we could get them before we went.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“In that case,” said Joe, relieved, “I
wouldn’t care when we went to camp.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, think it over.” Biff made a vicious
left swing at his imaginary sparring partner.
“Be sure and let me know.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Then he chased the invisible enemy down the
road and was soon lost to sight around the bend.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s going to miss one of those wild swings
of his some day and knock himself out,”
prophesied Joe. “I never did see a fellow so
crazy about boxing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s good at it. Still, that’s not a bad idea
he has about camping during the Christmas
holidays. We’ll talk it over with Chet.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys went on and in a short time they
came to the Jefferson house. It was a large,
gloomy mansion, set back some distance from
the road, and when the boys went up the walk,
which had been swept and shoveled clear of
snow, it was with a quickening sense of anticipation.</p>
<p class="pindent">They rang the bell.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll soon know what Mr. Jefferson wants
to see us about,” said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">The door opened.</p>
<p class="pindent">The housekeeper, a prim, angular woman,
regarded them silently for a moment.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Mr. Jefferson asked us to call,” explained
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He is expecting you,” said the woman.
“You will please come in.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They stepped into a gloomy hall and the
housekeeper ushered them toward a reception
room.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Please be good enough to wait,” she said
stiffly. “Mr. Jefferson is engaged at present.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Then she went away, her skirts swishing.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe Hardy sat uncomfortably on
the extreme edges of their chairs and looked
at the enormous family portraits on the walls.
They could hear voices from a living room
beyond. At first they could not distinguish anything
that was being said—not that they listened—there
being a mere hum of conversation,
but suddenly one of the men in the next room
raised his voice, sharply:</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t see why you won’t sell, Mr. Jefferson!
I offer a good price.”</p>
<p class="pindent">It was evident that the speaker was angry
and perturbed.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then, in another voice, also raised, came the
reply:</p>
<p class="pindent">“The island is not for sale at any price, Mr.
Hanleigh, and that settles it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">This, presumably was Elroy Jefferson, the
antique dealer. The other man expostulated.</p>
<p class="pindent">“But you know very well I’m offering more
money than——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I do not care to discuss it!” returned Mr.
Jefferson. “The island is not for sale. That’s
final! No! No! I don’t care to talk about it
any more. You are only wasting your time.
Good-day to you, sir.”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch5">CHAPTER V<br/> <span class="sub-head">Mr. Hanleigh</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">The Hardy</span> boys heard the door of the living
room open and saw two figures pass out into
the hall. A moment later the front door closed
with a bang. There were footsteps, and then
a small, kindly, gray-haired gentleman stood in
the entrance of the reception room.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe, in the meantime, were looking
at one another in astonishment. They had
recognized the voice of Mr. Jefferson’s caller,
and they had recognized the man himself as he
passed in the hall. It was none other than the
man who had ordered them away from Cabin
Island!</p>
<p class="pindent">Elroy Jefferson was advancing toward them,
his hand outstretched.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m sorry to keep you waiting, boys. You
are Fenton Hardy’s sons, I presume. Well,
well. I’m glad to make your acquaintance. I
didn’t mean to make you wait, but my caller
seemed insistent.” He seemed rather disturbed
and glanced back toward the door, shaking
his head. “That fool can’t take no for an
answer,” he muttered.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then, smiling, he turned toward the boys
again.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I asked you to call here this morning because
I wanted to thank you for getting my
Pierce-Arrow back for me. I was traveling in
Europe at the time and I didn’t know anything
about the affair until I came back. I’m afraid
you must have thought me very ungrateful.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not at all, sir,” said the boys politely.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, if I had been here at the time you may
be sure I would have expressed my appreciation
at once. However, better late than never. I
was away when the Automobile Club passed the
hat for that reward.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Elroy Jefferson referred to a reward which
had been subscribed by various owners of cars
which the Hardy boys had recovered from the
Shore Road thieves.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s all right, sir,” said Frank. “We
weren’t looking for any reward.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I know. I know. But you deserved one.
And, if you will allow me, I should like to give
you a reward of my own.”</p>
<p class="pindent">With that, he produced a wallet from his
pocket and withdrew two crisp, new bills which
he handed to the boys. The lads glanced at the
money with surprise, for Elroy Jefferson had
handed each a hundred-dollar bill.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, we can’t take this, Mr. Jefferson,” protested
Joe. “We’ve been very handsomely
rewarded already, much more than we deserved——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I want you to take this money. My car was
not insured and was worth a great deal more
than that to me, and if it hadn’t been for you
two boys I would have lost it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys protested, but Elroy Jefferson insisted,
and finally they were forced to accept the
reward.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now,” said Mr. Jefferson, “if there is anything
else I can do for you at any time, don’t
hesitate to ask me.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys looked at one another.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There is something we’d like to ask you,”
hesitated Frank. “That is, if we’re not intruding——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What is it?” asked the antique dealer
agreeably.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s about the man who just left here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hanleigh? What about him?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“If you don’t object to the question—does
Mr. Hanleigh own Cabin Island?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Mr. Jefferson shook his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Certainly not. Why do you ask?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank then told him about the adventure of
the previous day, and related how Hanleigh had
driven the three boys away from the island.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We thought it was strange at the time, for
we didn’t think that the island had changed
hands. Then, when we recognized Mr. Hanleigh
as the chap who ordered us away, we
thought we’d ask you about it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Elroy Jefferson was indignant.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why, I never heard the like!” he said
testily. “He had no authority to order you
away. None whatever. In fact, he had no
right to be on the island himself. The whole
place belongs to me.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He had no right to order us away, then?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No right at all. The island is mine. Mr.
Hanleigh, it seems, is anxious to buy it, but he
hasn’t bought it yet and he won’t buy it, as
long as the matter is in my hands. He came to
me a few weeks ago and offered me five thousand
dollars for the place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That is a large sum for an island, isn’t it?”
said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“More than the place is worth. He came
back this morning and raised his offer. Wanted
to give me eight thousand dollars if I would
sell. But I won’t sell. I won’t sell him the
island at any price, and I told him so. You see,
when my wife and son were alive they loved to
go there in winter and summer, so Cabin Island
has certain associations for me that cannot be
estimated in terms of money. They are dead
now, and I cannot bear to part with the place.
The cabin was erected for the use of my family,
and my wife and boy used to go there and watch
the workmen building it. So I’m not at all
inclined to turn the place over to strangers.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I see, sir,” remarked Frank sympathetically.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m sorry if Mr. Hanleigh drove you away.
He had no right to do that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Of course, we had no right there, in the first
place,” ventured Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just as much right as Hanleigh. Now, boys,
I have no objection to letting you visit the island
from time to time, if the place appeals to
you, providing you don’t disturb things.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We would be very careful.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m sure of that. Any time you want to
visit Cabin Island, go right ahead. And if Mr.
Hanleigh is there and has anything to say about
it you can tell him he has no authority and no
right to be on the property. I can’t imagine
why he was prowling around there at all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We were thinking of having an outing during
the Christmas holidays,” said Frank. “Our
big difficulty was in finding a good camping
place. Why couldn’t we stay on Cabin Island,
Mr. Jefferson? We could have our outing
there, and at the same time we could look after
your property.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Elroy Jefferson nodded agreeably.</p>
<p class="pindent">“An outing, eh? Just you two boys?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We have two or three of our chums along
with us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That would be fine. I envy you. A winter
outing. I think Cabin Island would be ideal for
that. And, if Mr. Hanleigh is busying himself
ordering people away from there, I imagine it
wouldn’t be a bad idea to have some one on the
ground to look after things. You have my permission,
boys. Go ahead, and have your outing
at Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s mighty good of you, Mr. Jefferson!”
exclaimed Frank impulsively, and Joe echoed:</p>
<p class="pindent">“You bet!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not at all. I know you can be depended on
to leave things as you find them. I’ll tell you
what I’ll do. I’ll put the whole matter in your
charge and I’ll turn over the keys of the cabin
to you. I think you’ll find it a very comfortable
place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">That was how the Hardy boys and their
chums received permission to hold their winter
outing on Cabin Island.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch6">CHAPTER VI<br/> <span class="sub-head">Preparations</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">When</span> the Hardy boys returned home after
their visit to Elroy Jefferson they hastened to
tell their father about the munificent reward
the antique dealer had given them for recovering
his automobile. Then came the momentous
matter of securing permission for the vacation
outing.</p>
<p class="pindent">Fenton Hardy listened with a smile.</p>
<p class="pindent">“So you want to leave us during the Christmas
holidays,” he said. “You don’t mind
missing Christmas dinner, with the turkey and
the pudding and the nuts and raisins and
candy. You don’t mind going without your
presents this Christmas. You’d rather go
camping.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Would we <span class="it">have</span> to miss our presents?”
asked Joe anxiously.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, you know that Christmas presents
are usually given out on Christmas morning in
this house. If you’re not here——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Couldn’t we get them before we go away?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Mr. Hardy laughed. “You want presents
and outing both, I see. Well, I suppose it can
be arranged. I have no objections to letting
you go camping, seeing Mr. Jefferson has been
good enough to allow you the use of Cabin
Island. If you take proper equipment with
you, plenty of food and blankets, you should
be comfortable enough. As a matter of fact,”
he murmured, “I wouldn’t mind going with you
myself.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Will you come, Dad?” shouted Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m afraid I wouldn’t be able to get away.
Go ahead with your outing—if your mother
agrees.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Mrs. Hardy, it appeared, had no objections,
although at first she was reluctant in view of
the fact that the boys would be absent from
the family circle over Christmas Day. “It
won’t seem like Christmas without my lads,”
she said.</p>
<p class="pindent">Aunt Gertrude, of course, insisted on contributing
her “two cents’ worth,” as Joe expressed
it.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Camping in the winter time!” she sniffed.
“I never heard the like of it. They’ll freeze
to death.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll be just as comfortable as if we were
in town, Aunt Gertrude,” said Frank. “The
cabin is well built and warm, and we’ll have
plenty of heavy blankets with us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’ll need ’em. As for being comfortable,
I’ll warrant you’ll be glad to come humping
back home where everything is nice and cosy.
You’ll find a big change, my fine young men,
when you get away down in that rickety shack,
with the wind blowing through the chinks and
the snow drifting in on the floor. If you stay
there longer than one night, it will be a big surprise
to me.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Of course,” put in Joe, “if you think you
will miss us so very much—if you really think
it would spoil your Christmas not to have us
here, why we won’t go.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Aunt Gertrude laughed mirthlessly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Spoil my Christmas! The idea! It will be
a real merry Christmas again, without two
noisy boys making life a botheration to me.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“In that case, then, we’ll go camping,” said
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">When they told Chet Morton of their interview
with Elroy Jefferson, that youth was
loud in his delight. He insisted promptly on
being included in the proposed outing.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The family is going to Boston for the holidays,”
he said. “They were going to leave me
at home alone. It looked like a fine Christmas!
But now—oh, boy! When do we start?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Three days before Christmas.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Great! Who else is coming?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We promised Biff Hooper.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure! Biff’s a good scout. But don’t make
the party too large. That cabin won’t hold
very many.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We figured on just the four of us,” said
Frank. “The ice-boat won’t hold any more,
anyway.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Fine. We’d better get together to-morrow
and decide how much grub we should take
along. We’ve got to eat, you know.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You <span class="it">would</span> bring that up,” laughed Joe.
“No fear of going short of supplies when
you’re in the party. You’ll see that we take
enough.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I must keep up my strength,” returned
Chet, unabashed.</p>
<p class="pindent">When the boys met Biff Hooper and told
him that the outing was assured and that
Cabin Island was available, the pugilistic lad
turned several handsprings in the snow by way
of expressing his delight.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yeah!” he shouted. “That let’s me out.
My Uncle Oscar and his five kids are coming to
spend Christmas at our place, and it would
have been up to me to entertain the little pests.
Now I’m out of <span class="it">that</span>! Hurray!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“This trip seems to be popular,” remarked
Frank. “Well, you’d better start figuring out
what you can contribute in the way of grub.
We each carry our own blankets.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Suits me. I’ll take <span class="it">all</span> the grub, if you
want.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Next day, the four gathered at Biff Hooper’s
home and, in a very businesslike manner, drew
up a list of requirements for the trip, and apportioned
what would be required of each. Inasmuch
as Frank and Joe had secured the
privilege of Cabin Island and were also giving
the use of the ice-boat, Chet and Biff insisted
on looking after the matter of food. Each boy
was to take along whatever cooking utensils he
could beg or borrow from home.</p>
<p class="pindent">In this manner, with conferences after school
and during the noon hours, the boys made their
preparations for the outing, and the last days
of the autumn term slowly dragged past. They
had decided to leave Bayport three days before
Christmas, almost immediately after
school closed, and the intervening time was occupied
by putting the ice-boat in readiness and
accumulating everything they would need.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We don’t want to keep trotting back to the
city every day for something we’ve forgotten,”
Chet pointed out.</p>
<p class="pindent">At last, everything was in readiness. The
food supplies were packed, the blankets were
stowed away, the ice-boat had been overhauled,
the boys had loaded skates, skis, and snowshoes
on their craft, and everything had been checked
over so that nothing would be forgotten. News
of the proposed outing had circulated among
the other boys at the Bayport high school and
the Hardy boys were besieged with requests
from many of their chums who wanted to accompany
them. But they were obliged to refuse.
The cabin was large, but it would not
accommodate everybody.</p>
<p class="pindent">Finally, school closed. There were the usual
closing exercises, which the lads sat through
impatiently, and then they raced toward home,
for the trip to Cabin Island was definitely
scheduled for the morrow.</p>
<p class="pindent">Mrs. Hardy had taken liberties with the
calendar, and when the boys came home that
night they found, to their unbounded delight
and astonishment, that the Christmas dinner
had been set ahead. There was a turkey in the
oven and the kitchen was redolent with the savory
odors of a Christmas feast.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Whoopee!” cried Joe. “We shan’t miss
our Christmas after all!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The dinner, being in the nature of a surprise,
surpassed all previous Christmas dinners.
Somehow, the turkey was more succulent, the
mince pie had a better flavor, simply because
the boys had been resigning themselves to missing
the good things that year. The mere fact
that the calendar indicated Christmas Day as
being actually four days off seemed to matter
little.</p>
<p class="pindent">Mr. Hardy had even ordered a Christmas
tree and, after dinner, when the boys went into
the library and found that even this crowning
touch had not been omitted, they felt that life
had little more to offer. The tree glittered with
lights and there were certain mysterious packages
in tissue paper that aroused speculations.
Frank and Joe immediately dashed upstairs
and returned with the presents they had
bought for their parents and for Aunt Gertrude,
which they distributed at the base of the
tree.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I think we’re lucky,” said Frank, when
they went to bed that night.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Lucky! I never expected to have Christmas
and our outing too,” returned his brother.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Christmas dinner, a tree, and our presents!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I hope Chet and Biff get off as well.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They fell asleep, happy.</p>
<p class="pindent">In the morning, the usual Christmas ceremony
of opening the presents was observed.
Frank and Joe were unusually fortunate. The
usual gifts of clothing, which included neckties,
scarfs, socks and shirts came first, then for each
of the lads came a complete outing costume of
breeches, mackinaw shirts and short coats. To
top it all came two small calibre rifles, each with
a box of ammunition.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Don’t kill too many rabbits,” laughed
their father.</p>
<p class="pindent">Christmas was complete. Frank and Joe had
given their parents one of the newest and finest
radio sets and to Aunt Gertrude they gave several
volumes of poems, as that lady was very
fond of reading. For once in her life, their
aunt did not sniff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just what I wanted!” she beamed. “I have
always adored Longfellow!”</p>
<p class="pindent">At that moment the telephone rang. Chet
was calling.</p>
<p class="pindent">“All set!” he reported. “Biff and I are
down here waiting.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll be with you in a minute,” said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">So the Hardy boys set out on their vacation
outing to Cabin Island. Little did they dream
of the many strange happenings in store for
them.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch7">CHAPTER VII<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Other Ice-Boat</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Chet Morton</span> and Biff Hooper, it appeared,
had not missed Christmas either. Their parents
had surprised them just as Mr. and Mrs.
Hardy had surprised Frank and Joe, and when
the lads met at the boathouse half an hour
later their preparations for an immediate departure
were somewhat hindered by joyous
discussion of the presents each boy had received.
Among Biff’s gifts was an ice-boat
from his father, over which the lad was ecstatic.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, let’s go!” shouted Chet finally. “We
can talk it all over when we get to Cabin
Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They clambered into the ice-boats, Chet getting
into Biff’s new craft with the proud owner.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ready!” cried Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ready!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re off!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boats glided out onto the ice of the bay.
There was a stiff breeze blowing and the boys
anticipated a quick run to the island. The wind
was strong and the sky was clear. The two
boats sped alongside one another, their sails
billowing.</p>
<p class="pindent">The city was swiftly left behind and the open
bay lay ahead. The winter air brought the
flush of health to the boys’ cheeks. Once in a
while they waved to one another. The shores
sped past.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank, at the tiller of the Hardy boys’ craft,
swung the boat around so that it got the full
benefit of the breeze, and it forged ahead, leaving
the other behind. This meant a race, so
Biff brought his boat around with the wind and
soon managed to overhaul his rivals. A vagrant
breeze gave him the advantage for a
while and he gained steadily while the Hardy
boys, to their chagrin, lagged behind, but the
breeze soon changed. Biff found himself running
against the wind before he realized it.
The Hardy boys’ craft scudded swiftly across
the ice, overtook him, then shot across his
bows.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe maintained their lead from
then on, taking advantage of every change in
the wind, and in due time they came within
sight of the dark bulk of Cabin Island, looming
against the distant line of the shore.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe stood up and waved his arms in excitement.
There was an answering wave from
Chet, in the speeding craft to the rear.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank swung the boat toward the south,
down into the cove. They drew closer to the
island.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Our friend Hanleigh can’t bother us now,”
laughed Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We have full authority. It was a mighty
lucky thing for us that we mentioned Cabin
Island to Mr. Jefferson.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder what Hanleigh was doing on the
island, anyway.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll bet he was up to no good,” said Joe.
“Well, we won’t worry about him. He won’t
trouble us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">However, Joe was destined to be mistaken.</p>
<p class="pindent">The ice-boat sped across the glassy surface,
drawing closer and closer to Cabin Island.
Frank, peering ahead, suddenly gave an exclamation
of surprise.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looks as if some one is here ahead of us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Where?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank pointed to the little bay where they
had landed on their previous visit. A white-sailed
object was clearly outlined against the
dark background of trees.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Another ice-boat!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe gazed at the strange craft in consternation.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder what that means.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll soon find out. Somehow, that boat
looks familiar to me,” said Frank, as he steered
toward the bay.</p>
<p class="pindent">As they came closer, they saw that the other
boat was deserted. Frank could not escape
the conviction that he had seen the boat before.
Slowly, he veered around until they ran alongside,
within a hundred yards of the bay. Then
he nodded.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I knew it,” he said quietly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s the boat Tad Carson and Ike Nash
were in the other day!” exclaimed Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There’s something queer about this business.
I wondered why they were so close to
Cabin Island when we met them. I’ll bet they
were coming here to get Hanleigh.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps you’re right. What shall we do
now, Joe?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Scout around a bit. We may learn something.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank did not go toward the bay. Instead,
he guided the boat around the arm of the
island. The boys signaled back to Biff and
Chet, indicating that they were to follow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It beats me why Tad and Ike should be
here, unless they have some connection with
this fellow Hanleigh,” said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And I don’t see why Hanleigh should be
here at all. He hasn’t bought the island yet.
According to Mr. Jefferson, he has no business
here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll run around the island once, and see
what’s what.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys did not have long to wait.
Circling the end of the island, they came to a
sheltered nook where they decided to land.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We can leave the boats here and go up toward
the cabin on foot,” decided Frank. “If
there is anybody here, we’ll have a better
chance of taking them by surprise.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They put in to the little bay and then waited
until Chet and Biff, in the other boat, came up.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the matter?” asked Chet, when
their craft came to rest. “Who owns that
other boat?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s what we want to find out. We figured
it would be best to lie low until we find
what’s going on around here,” Frank told him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Good idea,” approved Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That boat belongs to Tad Carson and Ike
Nash. I thought the best plan would be to land
here on the quiet and then go up to the cabin.
They have no right here, and I’d like to know
what they’re up to.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys alighted from the boats. There was
a sloping hillside before them, leading to a
clump of evergreens. The snow was unbroken.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank took the lead and advanced up the
slope. The others followed. When Frank
reached the evergreens he paused and looked
about. To his right he could see another bay
farther down the shore, and there he spied a
small boathouse.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boathouse itself would not have attracted
his attention so greatly had it not been
for the fact that he saw a distinct line of footprints
in the snow leading toward the rear door.
Frank had his wits about him sufficiently to
notice that the footprints were those of two
people and that they led toward the boathouse—not
away from it.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Somebody there now,” he commented
briefly.</p>
<p class="pindent">He led the way toward the boathouse. The
others trudged silently after him.</p>
<p class="pindent">Near the little building, Frank suddenly
stopped and raised his finger to his lips. He
had heard voices. With renewed caution, the
boys stole forward. In the lee of the boathouse,
they halted. Frank listened. He had heard
the murmur of voices from some distance back.
He pressed close to the boards.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” he heard a voice saying, “it’s none
of my business, so I’m not going to worry
about it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Then there was a second voice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m not worrying. I’m just wondering.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We have our money. That’s all that should
concern us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nothing wrong in wondering what he’s up
to, is there?” said the other. “I think there
must be something important around that old
cabin.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank turned to the others.
“Tad Carson and Ike Nash!” he whispered.</p>
<p class="pindent">He turned to the wall of the boathouse again.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I tell you, he wouldn’t pay us for bringing
him out to Cabin Island so often unless there
was something behind it,” Ike Nash was
saying.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s all right. What if there is something
behind it?” returned Carson. “It’s none
of our affair. He pays us. That’s all we want.
If Hanleigh cares to spend his time prowling
around this island, why should we worry, as
long as we get our money?”</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys and their chums glanced at
one another in surprise.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh!</p>
<p class="pindent">The man who had ordered them away from
Cabin Island on their previous visit! The man
whom Elroy Jefferson had said wanted to buy
the place!</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t see why he won’t let us go up to
the cabin with him,” grumbled Nash. “What
does he want to keep secret from us?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s his business,” snapped Tad Carson.
“If you go asking questions, then you’ll just
spoil everything. Leave well enough alone.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, what are we going to do now? That’s
what I want to know.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Stay where we are. He told us to leave the
ice-boat and wait here until he came down from
the cabin. Those are his orders. We get paid
for obeying orders.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Fine place to stay in!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What did you expect? A palace? We’ll
stay where we are. He said he wouldn’t be
long.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s been up in that cabin for half an hour
already. What’s keeping him?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know and I don’t care,” snapped
Tad Carson. “He’s paying us to wait here for
him, and we’ll wait.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Without a word, Frank Hardy turned away
and motioned to the other boys. In the deep
snow they moved silently from the boathouse.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hanleigh’s up at the cabin now,” said
Frank, when they were beyond earshot. “I
think we’d better go up and find out what he’s
doing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Right!” approved Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">In single file, the boys went back up the slope
in the direction of the cabin at the north end of
the island.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch8">CHAPTER VIII<br/> <span class="sub-head">Suspicious Actions</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">“Well, I</span> guess that explains why Tad Carson
and Ike Nash were heading in this direction
the day Hanleigh ordered us off the
island,” Frank Hardy said, when the boys
were out of earshot.</p>
<p class="pindent">“They were on their way to bring Hanleigh
back to town,” agreed Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s been using their ice-boat to get back
and forth to Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wonder what’s the big idea,” remarked
Chet. “They don’t seem to know what he’s
up to.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No, but we will—and mighty soon. We’re
responsible for the cabin now, so it’s up to us
to find out what Hanleigh is doing there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff looked dubious.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He won’t tell us, you can depend on that.
Probably he’ll tell us to clear out of here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What if he does? We now know he hasn’t
any authority. I’ll tell you what we ought to
do, fellows,” said Frank. “We should try and
catch our friend Hanleigh off his guard. If we
detour around through the woods, we can come
out at the back of the cabin. He’ll never hear
us coming through the snow. We’ll take a peep
through one of the windows and see what it’s
all about.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s a long way around,” grumbled Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It won’t take us far out of our way. The
snow isn’t very deep. We can make it easily
enough. Come on.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Under Frank’s leadership, the boys set out
into the woods, trudging through the snow, detouring
in order that they would not emerge at
the front of the cabin. At last they were within
sight of the little building. It seemed utterly
deserted, but the boys were quite convinced,
from what they had overheard at the boathouse,
that Hanleigh was somewhere in the immediate
neighborhood. They advanced cautiously.</p>
<p class="pindent">At the rear of the cabin was a small window.
They made this their objective. In the light
snow their footfalls made no sound.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank took the lead. The others stood back
for a moment while he went ahead, pressing
close to the cabin wall. When he was at the
window, he peeped in carefully. Frank gazed
into the interior of the building for a short
time. Then he turned and beckoned to his
companions.</p>
<p class="pindent">They came forward. Together, the boys
looked into the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">The interior design of the building was simple.
One long room, with a huge stone fireplace,
ran the length of the cabin. Bedrooms
and a kitchen led off to the side. From the
rear window the boys could see every detail of
the main room, and as they now looked they
could see a man standing before the fireplace.</p>
<p class="pindent">Although the man had his back turned to
them, they had little doubt but that he was Hanleigh.
Frank and Joe nudged one another in
excitement.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was quite unconscious that he was
being watched. He stood before the fireplace,
a long, slender stick in his hand. He stepped
forward, measured a section of the stone chimney,
stepped back and regarded the measured
part, got down on his hands and knees and
measured the base. Once in a while he shook
his head in disgust and muttered something
that the boys could not overhear.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys were puzzled. Why should Hanleigh
be measuring the fireplace in this abandoned
cabin?</p>
<p class="pindent">In their eagerness, they forgot caution and
gradually crowded closer and closer together
until all four faces were pressed full against
the windowpane. Had Hanleigh chanced to
turn their way he would have seen them in a
moment.</p>
<p class="pindent">However, the man seemed too greatly occupied.
He was concerned just then with the
fireplace and evidently he considered himself
quite safe from observation. Back and forth
he went, examining the interior and exterior
of the fireplace and the chimney, measuring it
from every possible angle, even counting the
number of stones. He took an envelope from
his pocket and jotted down figures on the back
of it.</p>
<p class="pindent">Suddenly, there was a gust of wind.</p>
<p class="pindent">The side door of the cabin, through which
Hanleigh had evidently entered, blew wide
open.</p>
<p class="pindent">With a mutter of astonishment, the man
swung around. He looked toward the door.</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys and their chums ducked beneath
the level of the window sill. But they
were too late.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh had seen them. They heard a
shout of consternation. Then they heard heavy
footsteps on the cabin floor. The door slammed.
Hanleigh came running around the side of the
building.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hold your ground!” advised Frank quietly
to his companions. “Don’t let him bluff us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh, red with wrath, confronted them.
He recognized the Hardy boys at once.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Spying on me, are you?” he shouted. “I
thought I told you boys to stay away from this
island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You told us,” returned Frank coolly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Then what do you mean by this?” roared
Hanleigh. “What do you mean by coming
back here again? I’ve a good mind to horsewhip
the whole crowd of you. A bunch of meddling
youngsters! Now get out of here and
stay away. If I catch you fellows on this island
again, I’ll—I’ll——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’ll do nothing, Mr. Hanleigh,” said
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">The man looked at them suspiciously.</p>
<p class="pindent">“How do you know my name?” he demanded.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It doesn’t matter how we come to know your
name. But we’re here to tell you this, Mr.
Hanleigh—you have no right to order us off the
island. As a matter of fact, it works the other
way.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re not trespassing. You are. You
have no right to be on this island at all. And
you certainly have no right to be in this cabin.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why, you young whippersnapper!” choked
Hanleigh. “I’ll show you if I have any right
to be here!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You can’t show us. What are you doing
here, anyway?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“None of your business!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It <span class="it">is</span> our business.” Frank reached in his
pocket and produced the key to the cabin. “See
this key. Mr. Jefferson gave it to us. We’re
in charge of Cabin Island from now on. I’d
advise you to clear out unless you want us to
report the matter to Mr. Jefferson. He can
very easily have you prosecuted for trespassing
on the island. He told us you had been given
no permission to come here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was at a loss for words. This development
came as a complete surprise to him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s a—a lie!” he gasped finally.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There’s the key!” piped Chet. “Laugh
that off.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t believe Jefferson gave you that key
at all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, yes, he did. We know more about you
than you think, Mr. Hanleigh. We know you’ve
been trying to buy this place and we know Mr.
Jefferson refused your offer. We were at his
house the day you offered him eight thousand
dollars for the place and he turned you down.
Does that look as if we don’t know what we’re
talking about?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What do you know about this place?” demanded
Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nothing except what we’ve told you,”
Frank continued. “We would like to know,
though, just why it is so interesting to you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The shot went home. Hanleigh licked his lips
nervously, then stared at the boys in silence for
a while before replying:</p>
<p class="pindent">“It isn’t interesting to me,” he said lamely.
“That is—except as a cabin I’d like to buy.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Was that why you were measuring the fireplace
so carefully?” put in Biff dryly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m not going to argue about it. I’m going
back to town and take up this matter with Jefferson.
He gave me to understand that he
wanted to sell the island, but he wants too
much money for it. That’s why I came out
here to look the place over.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You seem to come out quite often,” remarked
Frank. “Well, you’ll find us in charge
here from now on. Any time you can bring us
a note signed by Mr. Jefferson, stating that you
have permission to visit the place, we’ll let you
in. Just now, though, I think you’d better
clear out.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh clenched his fists, glared at the
boys for a moment, and then turned on his heel.
Without another word, he went away. The
boys followed him around the side of the cabin
and watched him as he strode heavily down
the slope, muttering to himself.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll see that he does go away,” declared
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys followed.</p>
<p class="pindent">Near the edge of the cliff they saw Hanleigh
turn and look back. He seemed surprised to
find that they had followed him. Then, evidently
deciding that further opposition was
useless, he went on down the path that led toward
the boathouse at the base of the cliff.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys stood watching until he reached the
boathouse, and they watched until he emerged
again with Tad Carson and Ike Nash. The
trio stood looking up for a moment, and Hanleigh
shook his fist in their direction.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Merry Christmas!” shouted Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">If Hanleigh heard the greeting, he did not
return it in kind.</p>
<p class="pindent">The interlopers went on down the shore toward
the place where they had left their ice-boat.
They vanished around the bend. After
a while, the boys saw the ice-boat emerge into
the open bay and recede swiftly in the direction
of Bayport.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s that!” exclaimed Biff cheerfully.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He didn’t have a leg to stand on, did he?”
added Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t think we’re through with Hanleigh
yet,” said Frank thoughtfully. “He isn’t the
sort to back down so easily at the first sign of
fight. I have an idea that we’ll see him on
Cabin Island again before very long.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let him come,” said Chet. “We have the
authority. All he has is nerve. Let’s put the
ice-boats up in the bay and get our stuff unloaded.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys turned and went back toward their
ice-boats.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just the same,” muttered Joe, “I’d like to
know what he was up to, measuring that fireplace
so carefully.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe’s thought was echoed in the minds of all.
There was some mystery about Hanleigh’s
visits to Cabin Island.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch9">CHAPTER IX<br/> <span class="sub-head">Night on Cabin Island</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">It</span> took the boys the greater part of the day
installing themselves in the cabin on the island
and “getting everything shipshape,” as Chet
expressed it, by nightfall. After they had
made the boats secure they were obliged to
make numerous trips from the shore to the
cabin, bringing up supplies, but by the time the
early winter twilight fell they had managed to
make the place very cosy and habitable.</p>
<p class="pindent">They were too busy to discuss the strange affair
of Hanleigh. Mid-afternoon had brought
a rising wind that sent sheets of snow scurrying
across the frozen surface of Barmet Bay
and they saw that a storm was approaching,
which made them more anxious to get settled
by night.</p>
<p class="pindent">They drew lots for the position of cook, the
agreement being that each boy should alternate,
a day at a time. Chet, to his relief, won
the first appointment. As he did not relish the
business of tramping back and forth to the ice-boats
in the snow, the arrangement was to his
entire satisfaction and he was soon busying
himself at the warm stove endeavoring to prepare
a savory stew for their evening meal.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looks like a dirty night,” commented
Frank, as he gazed out over the bay. “I’m glad
we’ll be all snug and settled.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Blankets had been brought up, the beds had
been made, the cupboard had been stocked and
the main food supplies had been stored in a
little room just off the kitchen. The lamps had
been filled with oil, and Biff had even tacked
a few highly colored pictures on the walls, “to
take away the bare look of the place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">By nightfall one would have thought the adventurers
had been living in the cabin for
months.</p>
<p class="pindent">The rising wind soon became a storm. As
darkness fell, the snow began beating against
the cabin windows and the gale howled down
the great chimney. The boys had decided
against using the fireplace for cooking purposes,
the kitchen stove being more adaptable,
but a roaring fire had been built and it cast a
ruddy glow throughout the main room of the
cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet, with an apron tied about his corpulent
waist, emerged from the kitchen from time to
time, reporting the supper as “nearly ready,”
and each announcement was greeted with
groans, for the fragrant odors were whetting
the boys’ appetites. At last, however, the table
was laid, the steaming plates of stew were
brought forth, and the boys fell to. Second
helpings were in order, for the stew was excellent
and the lads were hungry. Bread and
butter, canned peas and corn, an immense mince
pie and tin cups of hot coffee went the way of
the stew, and in due time the boys sat back,
sighing that they could not manage another
bite.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet beamed with satisfaction when the
others complimented him on the meal. The
boys sat about the table for a while, laying
plans for the forthcoming week, and then they
washed the dishes. After that, they explored
the rambling old cabin and finally sprawled on
rugs before the roaring fire.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Listen to that wind!” exclaimed Joe. “It
sure makes me glad to be indoors by a warm
blaze.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“With a full stomach,” amended Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You <span class="it">would</span> think of that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“The place wouldn’t seem half as cosy without
that fireplace,” said Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank regarded the great stone chimney.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It certainly is a whopper. I wonder what
Hanleigh was so interested in it for.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s forget about Hanleigh,” said Chet.
“He won’t bother us any more.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s hope not. But, just the same, I’d like
to know why he was making all those measurements.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“If he comes back, we’ll heave him into a
snowdrift and teach him a lesson,” suggested
Biff. “We won’t let him spoil our holiday.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Outside, the storm had become a blizzard.
Joe went to the window. He could see nothing
but driving snow, and the wind was howling
down upon the island. The cabin, staunchly
built, scarcely trembled before the impact of
the winter gale. The activities of the day had
left the boys tired and they decided to go to
bed early.</p>
<p class="pindent">In due time, after much scuffling about and
after Biff had chastised Chet for trying to hide
his socks in the woodpile, the boys retired for
the night and blew out the lamps. The fire
glowed red and the night wind howled down
the chimney. Under the heavy blankets, the
lads were warm and comfortable.</p>
<p class="pindent">Silence descended upon the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys were just snuggling down to sleep
when a terrifying sound rose above the clamor
of the wind.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Owoooooo!”</p>
<p class="pindent">It was like the wail of some anguished spirit.</p>
<p class="pindent">With one accord, the boys felt their hair rising
upon their scalps. No one said a word.
The dreadful wail died away, then broke out
again.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Owoooooo!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Then came Chet’s voice, from between chattering
teeth.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wh—wh—what was that?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Some of you chaps playing a joke on us?”
demanded Frank suspiciously.</p>
<p class="pindent">“N-not m-me,” declared Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Me neither,” said Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It wasn’t me,” Biff clamored.</p>
<p class="pindent">Just then the sound broke out afresh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Owoooooo!”</p>
<p class="pindent">It was a long-drawn-out, moaning sound that
rose in volume to a veritable shriek, indescribably
terrifying.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ghosts!” clamored Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There aren’t any such things!” snorted
Joe. “It must be the wind.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You n-never heard the w-wind make a
n-noise like that before, d-did you?” stammered
Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">The other boys were forced to admit that
they never had. The sound had a quality that
was almost human. Besides, they had been listening
to the howling of the wind all evening
and at no time had it approached that mournful
wail they had just heard.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Maybe somebody is lost out in the snow
and crying for help,” suggested Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“How could anybody get out to this island
on a night like this?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wait till we hear it again.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They listened. For a long time they did not
hear the mysterious sound. Then, with a suddenness
that made them all jump convulsively,
the wailing was resumed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Owoooooo!”</p>
<p class="pindent">This time, the noise lasted a good ten seconds,
rising to a shriek of terror, then dying
away to a dismal moaning.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s right in this cabin!” Chet said, in a
muffled voice which indicated that he had hidden
his head beneath the blankets. “It’s
ghosts—I know it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ghosts, my foot!” exclaimed Frank, scrambling
out of bed. “I’m going to find out what
is making that racket.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Be careful,” warned Joe nervously.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll help you,” declared Biff. He, too, got
out of bed, and then there was a yelp of pain,
followed by a crash.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ow!” yelled Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What happened?” demanded the others in
chorus.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I barged into a chair. Stubbed my big
toe. Ow!”</p>
<p class="pindent">This relieved the tension a trifle. The others
snickered at Biff’s predicament. Frank lit the
lamp and in its glow the boys were revealed,
shivering in their pajamas. Chet’s round face
peeped out above a heap of blankets.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Owoooooo!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The dreadful sound broke out again. Chet
dived beneath the blankets.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s the queerest howl I ever heard,”
declared Biff, rubbing his injured toe. “It certainly
isn’t the wind.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It certainly isn’t a human being,” said
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It can’t be a dog,” volunteered Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nor a cat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Then what is it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ghosts!” bellowed Chet, from beneath the
blankets. “Put out that lamp.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank, however, raised the lamp on high and
began to prowl about the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The noise seemed to come from over this
way,” he said, moving toward one of the big
windows near the front.</p>
<p class="pindent">Even as he spoke, the sound broke out afresh,
immediately above his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank looked up. He could see nothing, yet
that mournful wailing continued, and at last
died away again.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There’s certainly nothing up there,” he announced,
peering into the shadows.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There must be!” exclaimed Biff, close at
his heels.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hold the lamp. I’ll soon find out.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff took the lamp, and Frank dragged a
chair over to the wall. He stood on the chair
and began examining the surface of the logs.
At last, just when the sound broke out again,
he gave vent to a howl of laughter.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ve found it!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What was it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff raised the lamp.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Here’s your ghost. Come and see it, Chet.
A glass ghost.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank was pointing to an object embedded
between two logs. Chet, his fears laid at rest,
emerged from beneath the blankets and came
over.</p>
<p class="pindent">There was a small hole between the logs
where the plaster had fallen away. Some one,
for some unknown reason, had placed the neck
of a bottle in this hole in order to plug it up.
On the floor below lay the cork, which had somehow
worked its way loose from the bottle neck.
The wind, whistling through the glass tube, had
created the doleful, fearful sounds the boys had
heard.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ghosts!” said Frank significantly, as he
stepped down, picked up the cork and replaced
it in the neck of the bottle.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I didn’t <span class="it">really</span> think it was a ghost,” murmured
Chet lamely.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then the boys began to laugh. Although they
had refused to admit it, all had been puzzled
and more or less frightened by the uncanny
wailings, and their relief was now expended in
shrieks of laughter at their own expense. But
the brave Chet, who had even refused to search
for the cause of the sound, came in for his full
share of ridicule.</p>
<p class="pindent">The ghost was not heard again that night.
But it was another hour before the boys finally
fell asleep, snickering to themselves.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch10">CHAPTER X<br/> <span class="sub-head">Stolen Supplies</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">A complete</span> recital of the boys’ doings on
Cabin Island during their first two days would
be of small interest to any but themselves.
Suffice it to say that they enjoyed themselves
just as any other group of boys of the same
age would in similar circumstances.</p>
<p class="pindent">Cabin Island was located in a lonely cove,
and, as it was some distance away from Bayport,
few ice-boats ever ventured so far down
the bay. However, this isolation did not mar
the holiday. On the contrary, as Joe expressed
it, they could easily imagine that they were
having their outing in the remote Canadian
wilderness, instead of but a few miles from
their own homes.</p>
<p class="pindent">The storm that had welcomed them to the
island, died down during the night and when
they awakened the next morning they found
that there had been a heavy snowfall, with deep
drifts. To get down to the ice-boats they had
to break trail in real Northern fashion.</p>
<p class="pindent">“This will spoil the ice-boating,” predicted
Joe. But, to their delight, they found that the
high wind had swept clear great expanses of
the bay, and although there were certain areas
where the snow was piled high, by dexterous
steering they could skirt these patches and
keep to the open ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">The first morning, they spent clearing a path
from the cabin to the ice-boats in the little
cove. In the afternoon, they went out in the
boats for a while, then returned to the cabin
for a piping hot supper. That evening, they
sat about the fire, telling stories and chaffing
one another. They found that the keen winter
air and the wholesome outdoor exercise rendered
them sleepy long before their accustomed
bedtime and they were glad to turn in shortly
after nine o’clock.</p>
<p class="pindent">“At home I’d raise a rare kick if any one
tried to get me to go to bed at this hour,” said
Biff. “Now I’m mighty glad to hit the hay.
Boy, I’m tired!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The next morning they explored the lower
reaches of Barmet Bay, going as far as a little
village that nestled in a cove on the southern
shore, about three miles to the east of the
island. After lunch, they decided to make an
exploration of the country along the shore.
Leaving the island, they went inshore by ice-boat,
then donned snowshoes and went up on
to the mainland.</p>
<p class="pindent">This country was heavily wooded in spots,
and they spent an enjoyable afternoon snow-shoeing
far up on the hills, from where they
could look down and view the entire expanse of
the bay, with Cabin Island looking very small
in the distance. To the west, however, they
saw that clouds were gathering, and although
there was no wind, Frank remarked that he
was sure a storm was rising.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess we’d better get back before we get
caught in any blizzard,” he decided.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe had been peering at Cabin Island, an
intent expression on his face.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Do any of you chaps see any one on the
island?” he said.</p>
<p class="pindent">All looked. The island seemed deserted.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You must be dreaming,” scoffed Chet.
“There’s no one there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t see any one now, but I’m sure I saw
some one moving against the snow down by the
northern end of the island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps it was some animal,” Biff suggested.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It looked like a man. Of course, he was so
far away that I can’t be sure. I just caught
a glimpse of him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, we will find out when we get back.”</p>
<p class="pindent">By the time they reached the boats again,
Frank’s prediction of a storm seemed to be in
a fair way of being verified. The whole western
sky was black and a light breeze sent the snow
skimming across the surface of the ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll just about make it. Thank goodness,
the wind is in our favor,” said Frank, as he
clambered into his boat.</p>
<p class="pindent">They started off and made a quick run across
the intervening stretch of ice. It was already
growing dark when they reached the island.
The boys could see the snowstorm approaching
down the bay, sweeping toward them like a
gigantic gray veil. It was beginning to snow
and the air was filled with swirling white
flakes.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just in time!” shouted Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">They put their boats in shelter for the night,
then scrambled up the path toward the cabin.
Frank unlocked the door and they dashed inside.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll get a fire started and have a feed.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Feed!” declared Chet. “We’ll have a banquet.
I’m as hungry as a bear. I could eat
my own boots, without salt and pepper.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You won’t have to. There’s plenty of
grub.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank began making up the fire. Chet went
out into the kitchen to look over the food supplies
with a hungry eye.</p>
<p class="pindent">A moment later he emerged, his eyes almost
popping out of his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s gone!” he gasped.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s gone?” demanded Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The grub!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Every speck!” Chet was almost tearful.
“There isn’t a bit of food in the kitchen.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“There was plenty there this morning,” said
Biff. “What happened to it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Stolen. Come and see for yourselves.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They all trooped into the kitchen.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet had spoken only too truly. All their
food supplies had disappeared. The shelves
had been swept clear. The lads gazed at the
empty kitchen in consternation.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, what do you know about that?”
breathed Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Old Mother Hubbard had nothing on us,”
muttered Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank’s face was serious.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess you were right, Joe, when you said
you saw some one on the island. Some thief
has been here while we were away. That’s a
mighty mean trick. He hasn’t left us even a
loaf of bread.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And a fine chance we have of getting any
to-night, either,” Biff pointed out. “We can’t
get back to town in this storm.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys were disconsolate. The prospect
was cheerless. After an entire afternoon in the
open their appetites had been whetted to razor
edge.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Take off your boots, Chet,” said Joe, with
a feeble attempt at a joke. “You can have your
chance at eating them now.”</p>
<p class="pindent">This effort fell flat. The boys were in no
mood for jesting now. The loss of their food
supplies was a serious matter.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder who could have done it,” said
Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank shrugged.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looks like some of Hanleigh’s work.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“But why would he try to steal our supplies?
What good would that do him? Perhaps it was
only some sneak thief who chanced in here and
saw a chance to make a good haul.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps. But I imagine it was Hanleigh.
He knew we were here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wants to get us off the island,” remarked
Joe. “Perhaps he figured that if he stole our
food, we’d have to clear out.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll show him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“But in the meantime,” moaned Chet, “I’m
hungry.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looks as if you’ll have to go without eating
until morning. We can go down to that little
village and buy some more food then.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet patted his empty stomach.</p>
<p class="pindent">“But I can’t wait until then.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You still have your boots,” Joe reminded
him again.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then a thoughtful look crossed Chet’s face.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just a minute!” he shouted, and ran out
of the room.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s he up to now?” demanded Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">They soon found out. Chet returned with
one of the packsacks from under his bed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I just remembered. When we were unpacking
the grub I forgot to take everything
out of this packsack. Look!” He delved into
it and produced half a loaf of bread, three tins
of sardines, a can of salmon and a small quantity
of tea in a canister.</p>
<p class="pindent">The others raised a cheer of delight.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hurray!” shouted Biff. “We won’t starve
after all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You <span class="it">forgot</span> to unpack it, did you?” said
Frank pointedly. “I’ll bet you didn’t forget.
You just cached that grub away in case you
might get hungry some time during the night.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now what good would a can of sardines do
me in the middle of the night?” asked Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I know you. Never knew of you taking any
chances on running out of food yet,” Frank
told him. “Well, this time it worked out all
right. We’ll help you get rid of your little
supper, Chet.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“There isn’t very much.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Enough to keep us from starving, at any
rate.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Soon, with a blazing fire casting a glow
through the cabin, with the lamps lighted and
with the table spread, the lads felt more cheerful.
The meal was not at all what they had
anticipated as a conclusion to their day, but
their appetites were too keen to admit of any
fault-finding.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I suppose this means we go without breakfast,”
groaned Chet, as soon as he had finished
the last sardine.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s right! Start worrying about breakfast
the moment you’ve finished your supper,”
said Biff. “I never saw such a hungry wolf in
all my life.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m not hungry now, but I’ll be hungry in
the morning.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Then wait until morning before you start
talking about it.” Frank got up and went over
to the window. “Another wild night. If it
weren’t for this storm we could have made the
run to the village and back to-night, with more
food.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I hope the storm dies down by morning,”
muttered Chet gloomily.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If it doesn’t, you’ll probably die of starvation.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just wait until I lay my hands on the fellow
who played this dirty trick on us, that’s
all. Just wait!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It was Hanleigh, I’m sure of that,” Frank
said. “I’d give a lot to know why he’s so anxious
to get us away from this island!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He won’t freeze us out now. We’ll stay
here to the last minute,” said Joe firmly.
“And after this, believe me, we’ll keep an eye
on the supplies.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You bet we will!” declared Chet. “From
now on, I appoint myself guard of the food
supply—providing we get some more food for
me to guard.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The lads finally went to bed, although Chet
had to be silenced on a number of occasions
when he persisted in inquiring as to the probability
of reaching the village and returning
next morning before their usual breakfast time.
Before slumber claimed them all, however,
Frank expressed the common thought when he
observed:</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just wait until we meet Mr. Hanleigh
again!”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch11">CHAPTER XI<br/> <span class="sub-head">Postage Stamps</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Next</span> morning, the snowstorm having abated,
the boys went outside in a futile search for
footprints. The snow had obliterated any
tracks the thief might have made in the immediate
vicinity of the cabin, but down by the
boathouse, on the side sheltered from the wind,
they found several footprints. Frank took
measurements of them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Might come in useful some day,” he commented.
“I should say they were made by a
fairly big man.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How about food?” asked Chet, who had
gone without breakfast.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Right away. Joe and I will take our ice-boat
and go down to the village. You and Biff
had better stay here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Can’t I go with you? Perhaps I could get
something to eat at the village, and I wouldn’t
have to wait so long.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’ll eat with the rest of us,” laughed
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why do you want Biff and me to stay?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m thinking the thief may not have taken
those supplies away with him. If Hanleigh
did it, his purpose would be served by merely
hiding the food. You and Biff can spend your
time hunting around the island. You may find
where the grub has been hidden.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet’s face lighted up at this probability.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Come on, Biff!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys got into their ice-boat and
started off, leaving their two chums hopefully
searching for the lost supplies.</p>
<p class="pindent">The wind was favorable, and the Hardy boys
reached the little village down on the mainland
in a short time. It was a summer resort, and
at this season of the year most of the houses
were closed and boarded up, but a few permanent
residents stayed on the year round, among
them being the general storekeeper. His name,
as it appeared from a weatherbeaten sign hanging
above the store, was Amos Grice.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys left their boat by a little wharf
which was almost covered with snow and made
their way toward the store.</p>
<p class="pindent">An elderly man with chin whiskers peered at
them through his glasses as they entered. He
was sitting behind the stove, reading a newspaper
and munching at an apple, and he was
evidently surprised to see any customers so
early in the morning, particularly strangers.</p>
<p class="pindent">“How do, boys! Where you from?” he
asked.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re camping on an island farther up the
bay,” Frank explained. “We came here in our
ice-boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Camping, hey? Well, it ain’t many that
camps in the winter time. As fer me, I think
I’d rather set behind the stove when the colder
weather comes on. It’s more comfortable.
What can I do for you?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Some one raided our cabin last night and
stole all our food. We want to get some more
supplies.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Stole all your food!” exclaimed Amos
Grice, clucking sympathetically. “Well, now,
that’s too bad. Fust time I ever heard of any
thievin’ in these parts. Was it a tramp, do
you think?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We don’t know who it was, but we have an
idea. I don’t think it was a tramp. Just somebody
trying to do us a bad turn.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“A mean thing to do,” commented Mr. Grice,
wagging his head. “Well, I guess I can fix
you up all right. What do you want to buy?”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys spent some time giving the storekeeper
an order, and when the goods had been
wrapped up, Amos Grice invited them to sit
down beside the cracker barrel and “chat for
a while.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It ain’t often I see strangers in the winter
time,” he explained.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe told him that they could not
stay very long, because their chums were back
at the island, awaiting their return with the
supplies.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Back at the island, hey? What island?”
insisted Amos Grice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Cabin Island, it’s called.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Cabin Island, hey? Why, ain’t that Elroy
Jefferson’s place? Little island with a big
log cabin on it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s the place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why, I know Elroy Jefferson very well.
When he was living on the island in the summer
months he used to come down here for his
supplies.” Mr. Grice cackled with delight at
having found a common topic of conversation.
“Yes, I know Elroy Jefferson real well. He’s
a fine fellow, too, but very queer.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s a bit eccentric,” agreed Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes, he’s a queer old chap, but a better
man never wore shoe leather. How was he
when you was last talkin’ to him?”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys decided to humor the lonely old
storekeeper. Frank reflected that possibly they
might learn something about Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He was quite well. He let us have the cabin
for our outing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes, that’s just like Mr. Jefferson. Got a
heart of gold, specially where boys is concerned.
But queer—mighty queer in some
ways,” said Amos Grice, again wagging his
head. “Do you know”—and he leaned forward
very confidentially—“I really think he married
Mary Bender because of her postage stamp
collection.”</p>
<p class="pindent">This amazing announcement left the Hardy
boys rather at a loss for words.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He married his wife because of her postage
stamp collection!” exclaimed Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s what I said. You’ve heard of the
Bender stamp collection, haven’t you?” he demanded.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys shook their heads.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, I ain’t a stamp collector and <span class="it">I’ve</span>
heard of it. The Bender collection is supposed
to be one of the greatest collections of
postage stamps in the world. Why, I’ve heard
tell that it’s worth thousands and thousands
of dollars.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And Mrs. Jefferson owned it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yep. Her name was Mary Bender then,
and she inherited it from her father. I got
parts of the story from people who knew Mr.
Jefferson well. It seems he has always been a
collector of antiques and old coins and stamps
and things, but one thing he had set his heart
on was the Bender stamp collection. But he
couldn’t buy it. Either Mr. Bender wouldn’t
sell or Elroy Jefferson couldn’t raise the
money—but somehow he could never buy them
stamps he had set his heart on.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“So he married Mary Bender?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, now—maybe he didn’t marry her <span class="it">entirely</span>
on account of the stamps. You see, he
used to call at the Bender house quite often,
trying to get Mr. Bender to sell the stamps, so
in that way he met Mary Bender. I’ve no
doubt he fell in love with her, but, anyway, they
got married, and after Mr. Bender died his
daughter got the stamps. So, of course, then
Mr. Jefferson got ’em. His wife turned ’em
over to him as soon as she inherited them.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And then what?” asked Joe, interested.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Then,” said Amos Grice, with great effect,
“the stamps disappeared.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Disappeared?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“They went.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Stolen?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nobody knows. They just went.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Haven’t they been found?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Never been found from that day to this.
Not hide nor hair of them stamps has been seen
since.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Didn’t they have any clues?” asked Frank.
“Were the stamps simply lost?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“They disappeared,” insisted Amos Grice.
“And not only the stamps disappeared. There
was one of the Jefferson servants dropped out
of sight at the same time.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He probably stole the stamps and cleared
out,” Frank suggested.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If he stole ’em, why didn’t he sell ’em?
The stamps have never been heard of since
they left the Jefferson home. This servant—his
name was John Sparewell—could have
raised a lot of money by sellin’ the stamps, but
the stamps would have turned up sooner or
later, because only other stamp collectors would
have bought ’em. But of all the rare stamps
in that collection, not one has ever been
found.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s a strange yarn,” said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You bet it’s a strange yarn. The stamps
were all kept on sheets, in a rosewood box.
The day John Sparewell walked out of the Jefferson
home, the rosewood box disappeared
from the safe it was always kept in.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Has no one ever heard of Sparewell?
Didn’t Mr. Jefferson get the police to look
for him?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Certainly. But the police never found him.
They sent descriptions of this man Sparewell
all over the world, but he never turned up.
Queerest story I ever did hear. Mary Bender
died just a short time after. And ever since
the stamps were lost, Elroy Jefferson ain’t
been the same.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Amos Grice wagged his head sadly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“How many years ago did this happen?”
Frank asked.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, it must be nigh on fifteen or twenty
years ago. Guess that explains why you lads
never heard of the Bender stamp case, because
there was a lot about it in the newspapers at
the time. It was a mighty famous case, I can
tell you. It seemed to break Elroy Jefferson
all up, because that collection was the pride of
his heart, and when it disappeared so strangely,
he just didn’t seem to take any more interest
in anything. What <span class="it">I’ve</span> always said was that
if the police could only find this man John
Sparewell, they’d find what happened to the
stamps.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That seems reasonable.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yep. That’s the way I figgered it out. The
only trouble was, they never were able to find
Sparewell.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder why he stole the stamps if he
never sold them,” said Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess he was up against it when he tried
to sell ’em. He knew that nobody but stamp
collectors would buy the collection, and any
stamp collector would recognize the Bender
collection right away and tell the police. So
perhaps he’s never been able to sell them and
is waitin’ until Elroy Jefferson dies before he
tries to make any money out of it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe got up.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps that’s what happened,” Frank
agreed. “Well, Mr. Grice, we’ve been very
much interested in the story, but we must be
getting back to the cabin or our chums will
think something has happened to us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys paid for their supplies and then left
the store, after saying good-bye to the garrulous
old man.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Come again!” he called after them. “Drop
in and have a chat any time you want.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys went down to their ice-boat,
packed away the supplies of food they
had purchased, and headed back toward the
island.</p>
<p class="pindent">“So that’s the mystery in Elroy Jefferson’s
life,” mused Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wouldn’t it be wonderful if we could find
the Bender stamp collection for him?” returned
Frank.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch12">CHAPTER XII<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Notebook</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">When</span> the Hardy boys returned to Cabin
Island they found Chet and Biff awaiting them
hungrily.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We thought you would never come!”
moaned Chet. “Quick—where’s the grub? We
have a fire all ready. Now for some breakfast!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You didn’t find the stolen supplies, then,”
said Frank, bringing in a side of bacon they
had bought from Amos Grice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No sign of the food at all,” admitted Biff
ruefully. “No, I think the chap who stole that
food took it away with him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And ate it,” growled Chet, as he poured
some ground coffee into the pot.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We hunted every place we could think of—down
in the boathouse, under the trees, all
around the cabin—but we didn’t find the
grub.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“All I can say is that he must have been
a mighty strong man to pack all that stuff away
with him in one trip,” remarked Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s right, too,” agreed Biff. “I never
thought of that. Perhaps the supplies <span class="it">are</span>
around this island yet. We’ll take another look
this afternoon.”</p>
<p class="pindent">For the present, however, their immediate
interest was the long-delayed breakfast which
Chet was enthusiastically preparing. He soon
had bacon and eggs, bread, coffee and jam on
the table, and the lads attacked the meal with
gusto. Eventually their hearty appetites were
appeased.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What now?” asked Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I think we ought to spend the rest of the
day exploring the island,” Frank suggested.
“We haven’t really looked the place over yet
and we might just chance to run across those
supplies.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The others agreed that his plan was good, so
they donned their coats and caps and set about
a systematic search of the island.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank, in charge of the hunt, outlined a plan
of procedure.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll figure it this way,” he said. “Suppose
we were coming to this cabin to steal those
supplies, with the idea of hiding them. Where
could we go? There are only certain directions
we could go without ending up at a cliff or without
finding ourselves in the deep snow at the
top of the island. We’ll try to put ourselves
in the thief’s place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“If it were I,” said Joe, “I’d make right for
that clump of trees over to the left. Those supplies
were heavy. The thief wouldn’t want to
carry them very far, yet he would want a good
hiding place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” agreed the others.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, let’s tackle the trees, then.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys made their way across the snow-covered
rocks until they reached the clump of
bushes Joe had pointed out, and there they
searched carefully, kicking away the snow at
the base of the trees, in the hope of uncovering
the missing supplies.</p>
<p class="pindent">But their efforts met with no success. They
hunted through the entire grove and the only
result of their search was that Chet stubbed
his toe when he dealt a vicious kick at a rock
hidden beneath the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re out of luck here,” said Frank finally.
“Has any one else any good suggestions?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” said Biff, “if I stole those supplies
I’d hide them down by the shore some place,
among the rocks.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll give it a try. What’s the nearest
way to the shore from the cabin?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Down that little path at the back.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Away we go, then!”</p>
<p class="pindent">They left the clump of trees and ploughed
through the snow toward the defile that led
down from the rear of the cabin to the rocks
along the ice-bound shore. The rocks were
covered with snow, but their round masses rose
irregularly against the background of the ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We have a job ahead of us if we start moving
all these rocks,” objected Chet, with misgivings.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re not going to move ’em,” said Frank,
“That would take us about five years of steady
work. We’re just going to kick the snow
loose.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They attacked the heaps of rocks, prowling
about, kicking gingerly at the snow, dislodging
it from the hollows. For some time their efforts
met with no success. But at last Biff,
who had edged a considerable distance away
from his companions, gave a sharp cry.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I believe there’s something here, fellows!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The others went running over to him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What have you found?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff held up an object he had picked up from
the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“My foot bumped against this,” he explained.
“It looks like a can of coffee from
our supplies.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s the same brand!” declared Chet excitedly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll hunt carefully all around here,”
Frank decided. “Perhaps the thief just happened
to drop that can of coffee as he was going
toward the ice, but perhaps he didn’t. It’s
worth making a good search.”</p>
<p class="pindent">With this clue to guide them, the boys
plunged into the search with feverish activity.
The snow flew in clouds as they rolled away
the rocks. After a while, Frank and Joe, dislodging
a particularly large boulder, gave a
yell of triumph.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ve found it!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The large rock had been placed carefully on
top of two others, protecting a big hollow underneath.
And in this hollow the boys found
the two boxes containing all of the missing supplies.
They had been well sheltered from the
snow, and were dry and unharmed.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet gave a howl of relief.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hidden treasure!” he gloated. “So that’s
where the supplies went! Come on, fellows!
Back to the cabin with them!”</p>
<p class="pindent">As the lads loaded themselves with boxes,
cans, and packages, Frank nodded his head
with satisfaction.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I didn’t think they had really been stolen.
I guess this pretty well proves that some one
hid them here just to get rid of us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“A mighty mean trick!” snorted Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If that can of coffee hadn’t rolled out, we’d
never have found the supplies,” observed Joe.
“I’d have thought twice before I’d have tackled
that big rock.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, we’ve found the grub, and that’s all
that matters,” came from Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe was emptying one of the boxes when he
came across an object that he knew had not
been among the supplies originally.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder what this is,” he remarked, picking
it up.</p>
<p class="pindent">The object was a small notebook. He glanced
through its pages and found that most of them
were blank, although there was a certain
amount of writing on the opening sheets.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s this you’ve found?” asked his
brother, coming over.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe handed him the notebook.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m sure none of us had a notebook like
this.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It isn’t mine,” said Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nor mine,” added Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank’s expression brightened.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Say, I wonder if it belongs to the chap who
stole our supplies. Perhaps it dropped out of
his pocket into the box as he was bending
over.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps the fellow’s name is in it,” suggested
Biff. “Look through it and see.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank skimmed the pages.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Here’s where we get the goods on Hanleigh,
I’ll bet. If this is his notebook, we have
positive proof that he stole our supplies.”</p>
<p class="pindent">On the fly leaf of the notebook he came across
an inscription. It was a man’s name.</p>
<p class="pindent">But the name was not that of their enemy,
Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">Written across the page, in a bold, flowing
script, they saw the name, “J. Sparewell.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, can you beat that!” exclaimed Chet.
“It wasn’t Hanleigh, after all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sparewell,” mused Frank. “Where have
I heard that name before?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nobody around Bayport by the name, that
I know of,” remarked Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nor I,” added Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">They looked at one another, puzzled. Then
Joe made a suggestion.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps Sparewell and Hanleigh are the
same man.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps you’ve hit it,” said Frank.
“Sparewell—I’m <span class="it">sure</span> I’ve heard that name
before. Oh, now I know! Don’t you remember,
Joe? Remember what Amos Grice was
telling us this very morning? Remember the
story he told us about the missing postage
stamp collection? Sparewell was the man who
disappeared from Elroy Jefferson’s home the
day the collection was stolen.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“John Sparewell! That was the name. I
remember now!” Joe exclaimed. “The very
same!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What are you fellows talking about?” demanded
Chet. “I don’t get this at all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff was equally in the dark.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Who is Amos Grice? What did he tell you?
What’s all this about postage stamps?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“The Bender collection! John Sparewell’s
disappearance!” exclaimed Joe excitedly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hey! Talk sense!” admonished Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Come on back up to the cabin,” said Frank.
“We’ll tell you all about it. This is sure
strange!”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch13">CHAPTER XIII<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Cipher</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Back</span> at the cabin, with the precious supplies
again safely stored away in the kitchen, the
Hardy boys and their chums settled down before
the fire while Frank and Joe told Chet
and Biff about the conversation with Amos
Grice. They told the tale of Elroy Jefferson’s
missing postage stamp collection and about the
strange disappearance of the servant, John
Sparewell, who had never been heard of since.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And now we find his notebook among our
supplies!” exclaimed Chet. “That’s the
strangest thing I ever heard of.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“There’s an explanation somewhere,” said
Frank, puzzled.</p>
<p class="pindent">“How about my idea?” remarked Joe.
“Perhaps Hanleigh and Sparewell are the
same man.”</p>
<p class="pindent">But Frank shook his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You forget,” he said, “that Sparewell was
a servant in Elroy Jefferson’s home for many
years. If Jefferson saw him again he would
certainly recognize him, don’t you think?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s right. And he has seen Hanleigh.
The man was at his house the day we visited
Mr. Jefferson.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Then how did Hanleigh get the notebook?”
asked Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re not sure that Hanleigh was the man
who stole our supplies,” replied Joe. “We
think so, but we’re not sure.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It couldn’t be any one else,” scoffed Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know,” observed Frank. “For all
we’re aware, there may be more than Hanleigh
interested in this island. Perhaps we have a
bigger fight on our hands than we imagine.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s certainly a mighty deep mystery,” Joe
said.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, we may find out more about it if we
examine the notebook.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank began going over the pages.</p>
<p class="pindent">First of all, were several sheets of accounts,
evidently notes of receipts and expenditures.
On one page was listed: “Suit, $35. Necktie, $1.
Shirts, $6. Postage, 40 cents.” A long list of
items indicating that the owner of the notebook
was a careful and methodical man who
kept track of every cent he spent. At the top
of the page was written: “October, 1917.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why, that’s eleven years ago!” Frank exclaimed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And Sparewell disappeared fifteen years
ago.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It shows that he was alive for at least four
years after he left the Jefferson place, at any
rate.”</p>
<p class="pindent">On the opposite page was a record of receipts,
showing money Sparewell had received
from various people. These sums were small,
showing that Sparewell had not been enjoying
a luxurious existence by any means.</p>
<p class="pindent">On the page following the boys came across
a puzzling item.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Appointment with Jordan on Saturday.
My condition is worse. Doubt if I will be able
to last out the year. Would appeal to J. but
am afraid.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wonder what he meant by that,” said Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps it means he was going to die,” Joe
suggested.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys puzzled over the item for some
time, then went on to the next page. It had a
number of items concerning the stock market,
of little interest. Other pages were filled with
equally ambiguous and uninteresting notes.
Then another page was filled with a crude
drawing in the shape of an irregular oval, with
a cross marked at one side.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looks like a warped egg,” commented
Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looks to me like a map of some kind,”
Frank said. “Well, perhaps we’ll learn some
more about it.” He turned the page.</p>
<p class="pindent">There he found a number of other entries
with dates.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nov. 3—hire of boat—$3.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nov. 4—hire of boat—$3.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nov. 6—boat—$5.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Finished, Nov. 6.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys looked at one another, unable to
understand.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He was certainly doing a lot of boating that
week,” said Frank. Then on the next page he
found two words.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ah, now we’re getting somewhere. ‘Cabin
Island.’ Sparewell had something to do with
this place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps that’s why he was making so many
boat trips,” Joe suggested. “He may have
been coming here.”</p>
<p class="pindent">On a sudden inspiration, Frank flipped back
the pages until he found the mysterious map.</p>
<p class="pindent">“This much is clear, at any rate. Take a
look at that map, fellows. What does it remind
you of?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Cabin Island!” they shouted.</p>
<p class="pindent">They had not noticed the resemblance before.
Now, it was perfectly clear. Cabin Island
was oval-shaped, and in general contour it resembled
the crude drawing in the notebook.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, we know now that this man Sparewell
was alive for at least four years after his disappearance
from the Jefferson place, and that
he was interested in Cabin Island for some reason,
and that he probably made several trips
here by boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Next page!” said Chet, eagerly.</p>
<p class="pindent">But the next page puzzled them more than
ever. There were several lines written, but, so
far as the boys could see, they were simply gibberish.</p>
<p class="pindent">This was what Sparewell had written:</p>
<div class="lgc" style="margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line">XZYRM. RHOZMW. XSRNMVB. OVUG.</p>
<p class="line">UILMG. MRMV. UVVG. SRTS.</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->
<p class="pindent">And that was all.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A cipher message!” Joe exclaimed.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet sniffed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A lot of good that does us. We can’t make
any sense out of that!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’d give my shirt to know what that message
means,” remarked Biff. “I’ll bet it is
something mighty important.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He wouldn’t have put it in cipher if it
wasn’t important,” Frank agreed. “Well, this
is certainly pretty deep. I wonder if Sparewell
really was the man who came here and hid
our supplies. The more I think of it, the more
it seems to me that he did come here. There’s
absolutely nothing in this book to connect it
with Hanleigh. His name isn’t mentioned from
beginning to end.” Frank had flipped over the
rest of the pages and found that they were
blank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why should Sparewell pop up here at this
time?” pondered Joe. “Do you think he and
Hanleigh may be working together?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps. And still, if Sparewell is still
alive, I can’t see why this notebook ends where
it does. Eleven years have passed since he
made these entries.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He may have kept other notebooks,” Joe
suggested. “Perhaps he merely kept this one
because of the cipher. There was some secret
he didn’t want others to know, and he kept
that notebook in his possession at all times, for
fear some one might find it and solve the cipher.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That sounds reasonable. But I’m afraid
we can’t do much more unless we can learn the
secret of that message.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s a tough one,” Chet commented.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ciphers have been solved before this. Have
you ever read Edgar Allan Poe’s story called
‘The Gold Bug?’ In that yarn, he had a cipher
to solve and he went on the idea that the letter
‘e’ was the letter most frequently used in the
English language,” said Frank. “Suppose we
apply it to this case. Looking it over, the letter
most often used in the cipher is the letter
‘m.’ If we take ‘m’ to mean ‘e’——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’ve got it!” shouted Chet. “I’ll bet
we’ll solve this riddle yet.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank marked down the letter “e” above
each place in the cipher where the letter “m”
occurred. But he was no farther ahead than
he was before. Presuming that “m” should
really be “e” he found that it occurred once in
the first word—for he took it for granted that
each dot in the message represented a division
between two words—once in the second word,
once in the third, once in the fifth and twice in
the sixth. This simply rendered the cipher
more confusing than ever, for there was no clue
as to what the other letters might be.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If there was a three-letter word in the message,”
he said, “we might get somewhere.
That’s how the fellow in the story worked it.
He found a lot of three-letter words, each of
the same combination of letters, so he gathered
that they would mean ‘the’ because the letter
he thought meant ‘e’ was at the end of each.
That gave him two more letters, ‘t’ and ‘h,’
to work on, and from there he found the cipher
easy.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Mr. Sparewell was too smart for us,” said
Joe. “He didn’t use ‘the’ in this message at
all, from the looks of things.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess that scheme isn’t so good. Well, we
have the notebook, and whoever lost it is sure
to miss it and come back for it. I think it
wouldn’t be a bad idea if we kept an eye on that
place where the stores were hidden.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Catch him in the act!” said Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If the man is Sparewell, I guess Mr. Jefferson
will be mighty glad to know where he is.
The police have been searching for the man for
fifteen years now. If it isn’t Sparewell, he’ll
have a lot of explaining to do concerning this
little book and how it came into his hands.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“From now on, then, we keep a weather eye
on those rocks,” Chet declared. “We ought to
stand guard.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t think that will be necessary,” said
Frank. “It would only frighten him away.
The best plan is to watch the place from here.
We can easily see any one approaching the
island and we can watch to see where he goes.
If he heads for those rocks, we’ll know we have
our man.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That means that some one has to stay on
the island all the time.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I think it would be best. We can take turns
at that, so it shouldn’t spoil our outing. Somehow,
I don’t think we’ll have very long to wait.
The moment that man finds his notebook is
gone, he’ll hurry back for it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The other boys agreed that Frank’s plan was
about the best that could be devised toward laying
the mysterious thief by the heels. They
were tingling with excitement because their
outing on Cabin Island had plunged them into
the depths of a first-rate mystery.</p>
<p class="pindent">That afternoon they remained on the island.
The next day was Christmas and they were
preparing to celebrate it accordingly.</p>
<p class="pindent">But the intruder did not return that day.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch14">CHAPTER XIV<br/> <span class="sub-head">Christmas Day</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">“I think</span> we ought to make this outing an
annual affair,” said Chet Morton the next
morning after the boys had wished one another
“Merry Christmas.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We get two Christmases out of it. It suits
me fine.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“If you expect to get any presents around
here, you’re badly mistaken,” sniffed Joe, putting
on his shoes.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I didn’t. If I had expected any I would
have hung up my stocking. But we’ll have a
Christmas dinner, anyway. That’ll be the second
Christmas dinner this week.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“If we hadn’t found those supplies, you’d be
out of luck for your Christmas dinner to-day.
The chicken and the pudding and the Christmas
cake were all in those two boxes,” Frank
said.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Didn’t I know it? But everything is all
right now.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Take a look out the window and see if Hanleigh
is snooping around the rocks,” advised
Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet sped to the window.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A glorious day!” he reported. “A beautiful,
sunshiny Christmas day. The only cloud
on the whole horizon is that there is no sign of
Mr. Hanleigh. The ice is clear and it looks as
if we’ll have some splendid ice-boating this
afternoon. But Mr. Hanleigh is not ice-boating
this morning. There is snow on the hillside—but
our dear friend Hanleigh is not snow-shoeing.
But let us not lose hope. He may yet
emerge from his hiding place and proceed forth
to enjoy the keen Christmas air in the vicinity
of Cabin Island, that clear atmosphere that he
doesn’t want us to breathe.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet’s rhapsody came to an abrupt halt when
Joe hurled a wet towel that caught him
squarely on the back of the neck. Frank, who
had been appointed cook for the day, put a stop
to hostilities by announcing breakfast just then
and the lads sat down to piping hot plates of
ham and eggs, accompanied by fragrant coffee.</p>
<p class="pindent">The big surprise came when Frank, with a
flourish, drew aside a curtain that had been
screening a mysterious table in one corner of
the big room. Here, the Hardy boys had put
their presents to each other and to their chums.
There was a handsome pair of boxing gloves
for Biff and a glittering, nickel-plated flashlight
for Chet. Frank had given his brother a
new watch-chain and Joe, in turn, had given
Frank a pair of cuff-links with his initials engraved
thereon.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” said Chet, admiring the flashlight
and switching it on and off to see that it was
in good working order, after the boys had exchanged
thanks for the gifts, “Biff and I
thought we were putting something across, too,
but you got ahead of us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">And, going into the kitchen, he emerged with
some mysterious-looking parcels which he
promptly distributed. These were the presents
Biff and Chet had arranged to give the Hardy
boys and to each other. Frank received a pair
of ski-boots and Joe the same. Biff’s enthusiasm
over a punching bag was long and loud,
while Chet himself was delighted with a little
book of tickets to the best motion picture house
in Bayport.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I see where I won’t do much homework
until these tickets are used up,” he said, with
a wink.</p>
<p class="pindent">Their presents having been duly examined
and admired, the lads donned their outing
clothes, with the exception of Frank. As cook,
it was his duty to stay and prepare the Christmas
dinner, at the same time keeping an eye
on the rocks where the supplies had been hidden.
The base of the cliff was in plain view of
the big cabin window so there was little danger
that the owner of the mysterious notebook
would approach unobserved.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What if he should chance along while
you’re all away?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We never thought of that,” said Biff, in
dismay. “You couldn’t very well handle him
alone.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How about your rifle?” Joe suggested.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The very thing! Even if you chaps go as
far as the mainland, you will be able to hear a
rifle shot. I’ll fire one shot into the air and
that will be the signal to come back as quickly
as you can. If he tries to get away, you can
easily head him off in the ice-boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">This arrangement seemed to preclude any
possibility of the stranger’s escape if he
chanced to show up, so Joe, Chet and Biff
trooped out. For the morning, they had decided
to stay close to the cabin, “so there won’t
be any risk of missing dinner,” as Chet explained,
and amuse themselves by fishing
through the ice. So, with lines ready and
hooks baited with pieces of salt pork, they
made their way down the slope and out on
the ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">There they set to work with their hatchets
and soon had three holes chopped in the ice.
They dropped in their lines and from then on
it was a game to see who would catch the first
fish. Chet, of course, raised a clamor every
few minutes, claiming that he had a bite, but
somehow the fish always managed to get away.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No wonder,” grumbled Biff. “You scare
’em away, with all that racket. Try being quiet
for a while and see how it works.”</p>
<p class="pindent">To the astonishment of the others, Chet actually
did manage to refrain from noise for the
space of five minutes and the plan evidently
had good results—but not for Chet. Joe suddenly
gave his line a yank. A silvery body
flashed through the air and flopped wildly on
the ice.</p>
<p class="pindent">He had caught a good-sized fish and when it
has been despatched, the others returned to the
ice-holes with renewed enthusiasm. Within a
few minutes, Biff was the fortunate one, and a
second fish was laid to rest on the ice beside the
first. Chet endured the chaffing of the others,
who elaborately complimented him on his skill.
A moment later, he gave a yell of delight.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ve got one! I’ve got one!”</p>
<p class="pindent">He began to haul and tug at the line.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A whopper!” gasped Chet. “I can hardly
pull him in.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The other boys watched his efforts, their eyes
bulging. Chet was struggling with all his
might and although he was gradually drawing
in his line, there seemed to be a tremendous
weight on the end of it.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Must be a whale!” grunted Chet. “Ah—here
he comes!”</p>
<p class="pindent">He drew in his prize. It rose above the surface
of the water. Chet stared at it in disgust.</p>
<p class="pindent">The “fish” was nothing more than a very
battered pail. Chet’s hook had somehow caught
the handle. Full of water and mud, the pail
had almost broken the stout line by its weight.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe and Biff whooped with laughter. Joe
gave the pail a kick that sent it back into the
water again.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Some fish!” yelled Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It wasn’t a whale. It was a pail!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet glared at his companions.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll show you!” he said.</p>
<p class="pindent">He baited his hook and again cast in his line.
Immediately there was a lively wrench. Chet
gave the line a twitch, and this time he did
catch a fish. The only drawback to his enjoyment
lay in the fact that it was only about four,
inches long.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A sardine!” grinned Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">However, Chet placed his capture beside the
other fish, just as proudly as though it were a
ten-pounder.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It isn’t any fault that I caught it before it
had time to grow a little more. It might just
as easily have been a big one,” he said.</p>
<p class="pindent">The fishing became cold sport after a while,
inasmuch as the boys were obliged to stay in
the one place and could not move around
enough to get exercise. They soon began to
feel the cold and before long began to await the
sound of the dinner bell. This, as Frank had
warned them, would be achieved by banging the
poker against a tin pan.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, if our supplies are stolen again, we
can live on fish,” remarked Joe cheerfully.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not if we depend on Chet to catch them for
us,” said Biff. “I’m sure we wouldn’t make
much of a meal out of that whale he caught. A
little bit tough for my taste.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet was just thinking up a retort in kind
when they heard the welcome clatter of the tin
pan. With one accord, they hauled in their
lines, seized the fish they had caught, and raced
madly back to the shore, scrambled headlong up
the slope and breathlessly plunged into the
cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the matter?” asked Frank, as they
made their hurried entry. “Somebody chasing
you?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hunger is chasing us!” declared Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Dinner is ready. Wash up and hop to it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They needed no second invitation. Frank
opened the oven door and a delicious odor of
browned chicken permeated the cabin. The
Christmas pudding, which Mrs. Hardy had prepared
before the boys left Bayport, was already
steaming, and the table was loaded high
with good things, pickles, potatoes, “and all the
trimmings.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys later vowed that of all the Christmas
dinners they had ever eaten, with all due
respect to the dinners they had sat down to at
home, the one that would remain longest in
their memories would be the Christmas feast
they devoured during their outing on Cabin
Island.</p>
<p class="pindent">The afternoon they spent quietly, trying out
their skis on the sloping hillsides on the eastern
side of the island. This exhilarating sport
made the hours pass quickly, and when the
winter twilight fell the boys returned to the
cabin, weary and happy.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The best Christmas ever!” they voted it.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” said Frank, as they sat about the
fireplace that evening, “the man who lost the
notebook didn’t show up to-day.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’ll be back,” said Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And we’ll be ready for him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps he hasn’t missed it yet,” suggested
Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps not. What I’m afraid of,” Frank
said, “is that he won’t consider it important
enough to come back for.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Important! Why, the cipher is in it!” exclaimed
Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes, but he knows the cipher by heart, no
doubt. And the very fact that the message is
in cipher will protect him. He knows that if
we do chance to find the notebook, it will be a
hundred chances to one that we’ll never be able
to find out what it means. He may not worry
about losing the notebook after all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys were thoughtful.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We may never catch him, then?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I hope so,” said Frank. “But we can’t
count on it too strongly.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll get him,” Joe declared. “That message
had something to do with Cabin Island.
The man will be back here anyway, notebook
or no notebook, I’m dead sure.”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch15">CHAPTER XV<br/> <span class="sub-head">Chicken Thieves</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Next</span> morning, although the boys kept a
sharp lookout, there was no sign of the marauder.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re not going to let him spoil our holiday,”
declared Frank. “If he decides to come
back for his notebook we’ll be ready for him,
but we don’t have to sit around waiting.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What say we go back and call on Amos
Grice?” suggested Joe. “He may be able to
tell us some more about Elroy Jefferson and
the stamp collection.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Good idea!” declared Biff. “I’d like to
meet the old chap.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet said nothing. He was already struggling
into his coat. The prospect of a jaunt
in the ice-boats appealed to the boys strongly,
for it was a bright, sunny morning and the air
was keen.</p>
<p class="pindent">In a short time, the lads were ready, and
went scrambling down the slope toward the
little cove where the ice-boats were sheltered.
Chet, who was anxious to learn how to manage
the craft, seated himself at the tiller of
Biff’s boat.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Guess I’d better take out some insurance,
if you’re going to steer,” said Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Don’t worry about me, my lad,” Chet advised.
“Hang on to your cap, for you’re in for
a swift ride, with plenty of fancy twists and
curves.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys got into their own boat, the
sails flapped in the wind, then filled out, and
the boats sped out of the cove into the open
bay.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet soon found that steering was not the
simple thing it had seemed. He was in difficulties
before he was more than a few hundred
yards away from the island. Then, essaying a
sharp turn, he almost upset the boat.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe could see Biff remonstrating
with him, but Chet evidently refused to give
up the tiller.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He means to learn how!” laughed Frank.
“I’ll bet Biff is sweating. He’s afraid Chet
will wreck the boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m just as glad I’m not riding with them,
myself,” returned Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">At that moment they saw the other boat veer
sharply around. The sails bellied in the stiff
breeze and the ice-boat came plunging across
the bay toward them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the matter now?” exclaimed Frank.
“Is he trying to run us down?”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boat boomed on, without changing its
course. They had a glimpse of Biff Hooper
standing up and waving his arms wildly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Guess we had better get out of the way.”
Frank, who was at the tiller, swung the boat
to leeward, and at the same instant the other
craft changed its course and was still heading
directly down upon them.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then, to their astonishment, the oncoming
boat swerved again, this time with such violence
that Biff Hooper lost his balance, staggered,
and tumbled out on to the ice. Chet, the
amateur, was left alone at the tiller of an ice-boat
which was out of his control.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then ensued a weird game of tag. Chet’s
boat was at the mercy of the shifting winds. It
dodged to and fro, plunged from side to side.
No one could tell where it was going next.
Most of the time, it seemed to be plunging directly
at the Hardy boys’ boat, and Frank was
kept busy steering out of the way.</p>
<p class="pindent">Once it seemed that a collision was inevitable.
The runaway boat swung sharply about,
seemed to gather speed as the wind caught it,
and then came on with a rush. Frank desperately
tried to maneuver his craft out of its
course. The other boat was rushing down on
him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Jump!” shouted Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Stay where you are!” Frank yelled. There
was still a chance. He bore down on the tiller.
The ice-boat swung into the wind just as the
other craft went flashing past. They could see
Chet, a look of comical fear and amazement on
his face, frantically trying to get the boat under
control.</p>
<p class="pindent">Out on the open ice, Biff had scrambled to
his feet and was madly pursuing the fleeing
craft. Chet managed to get the boat back
against the wind, it turned wildly and raced
directly at Biff. Then Biff turned and fled.
He might have been run down had he not
leaped to one side just in time. As the boat
was speeding past he watched his chance and
jumped.</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff clambered over the side and crawled
over Chet, who gladly moved over to allow him
to take the tiller. In a few moments the boat
slackened speed. Shortly afterward, Biff had
the situation well in hand, turned the boat
about, and drove alongside the Hardy boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Are you satisfied?” said Biff, glaring at
Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Must have been something wrong with the
steering gear,” Chet explained weakly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Steering gear, nothing!” snorted Biff.
“Something wrong with the fellow who was
steering, that’s all. After this, I’ll take charge
of the boat myself.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re welcome. I’ve had plenty.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Thank goodness!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What was the big idea?” shouted Frank
“Trying to wreck us all, Chet?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No harm done. We’d better forget it,”
muttered Chet sheepishly. “I can’t seem to
get the hang of this steering business. I’d
rather be just a passenger, anyway.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That suits everybody,” growled Biff.
“When I go out ice-boating I don’t care to
spend half of my time chasing the boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe snickered. The recollection of Biff slipping
and sliding across the ice in pursuit of the
runaway craft, and then slipping and sliding
with the boat in pursuit of him, appealed to
Joe’s sense of humor. That snicker was like
a match touched to gunpowder, for Frank also
laughed, then Chet, and finally Biff himself had
to grin. So, in high good humor again, the lads
got back into the boats and resumed their journey
toward the village.</p>
<p class="pindent">They reached the little place about ten
o’clock and made their way up through the
snow to Amos Grice’s store, where they found
the proprietor sitting beside the stove, munching
crackers from the barrel, just as they had
last seen him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Howdy, boys!” he greeted them. “Come
to pay me a call? Sit down and make yourselves
at home. Help yourselves to the crackers.
I keep ’em here to sell, but somehow it
seems I never sell any, although the barrel
keeps gettin’ empty all the time just the same.
I’ve been always intendin’ to put a cover on
that there barrel but I just can’t seem to get
around to it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We found our supplies, Mr. Grice,” Frank
told him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You found ’em, eh? Where were they?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Somebody had hidden them on us, as a
joke.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just this mornin’ I was thinkin’ about you
lads,” said Amos Grice. “There’s been a
couple of thieves around here, too, and I was
wonderin’ if it was the same ones that swiped
your supplies.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Thieves!” exclaimed Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yep. They paid me a visit last night. Stole
a lot of my chickens.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys looked at one another. Amos Grice
laughed. “Not the kind of thieves you’re
thinkin’ about,” he remarked. “These ain’t
two-legged thieves. Four-legged ones. They
mighty near cleaned out my hen-house. Seven
fine fat chickens I lost.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Foxes?” ventured Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">Amos Grice nodded.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Foxes! A couple of ’em raided the hen
roost last night and made off with seven chickens
and I never even caught a sight of ’em at
it. If I only had time to leave the store I’d
certainly set out after ’em. Still, they may
come back, and if they do they’ll find me settin’
up waitin’ for ’em with a shotgun.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps they have a den just outside the
village,” Biff said.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I know they have. I ain’t the first man to
lose chickens here this winter.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Did they leave any tracks?” asked Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Plenty of ’em. Come with me and I’ll show
you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Amos Grice led the way out of the store toward
the hen-house in the back yard. A few
chickens, the only ones remaining of the flock,
were pecking at some grain. The old storekeeper
showed the boys two distinct trails in
the snow, leading away from the hen-house, up
toward the hill at the back of the store.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s the way they went,” he said.
“With my chickens. I tell you, I had a mighty
good mind to close up the store and start after
’em right away. I’d like to get a shot at the
rascals.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Joe and I have a couple of small rifles down
in the ice-boats,” Frank said. “Perhaps we
could try our hand at shooting the foxes.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Good idea!” approved Chet. “I wish I had
a rifle.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You can have mine,” declared Amos Grice.
“I have a couple of guns up in the store that
I’ll let you have. And if you can drill them
two foxes I’ll be mighty grateful to you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The Hardy boys and their chums were at
once enthusiastic over the idea of a fox-hunt.
Amos Grice provided Chet and Biff with rifles
while Frank and Joe hastened to get their own
weapons. Amos Grice even insisted on lending
them his dog.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If there’s any foxes within five miles, that
dog will dig ’em out,” he said. “Only be sure
and not shoot my dog.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll be careful,” promised the boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just follow those tracks in the snow and
you’ll come right to the den, I’ll bet a cookie,”
declared the old man.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s go!” shouted Joe. “We’ll bring back
your foxes, Mr. Grice.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure will,” added Chet jubilantly.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys started off through the deep snow,
following the double trail up the hillside.</p>
<p class="pindent">The dog was a lanky, mournful looking brute
who seemed too lazy, as Chet expressed it, “to
wag his own tail,” but he lived up to his master’s
recommendation. The moment the boys
started following the trail, the dog seemed to
have a new interest in life, and he plodded on
ahead, sniffing at the trail left by the marauding
foxes.</p>
<p class="pindent">The snow was deep but the boys thoroughly
enjoyed the excitement of the chase.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We didn’t expect to blunder into a fox-hunt
when we left the cabin this morning, did we?”
said Joe, when the village was out of sight behind
them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll say we didn’t,” returned his brother.
“This beats ice-boating all hollow.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It will, if Chet will keep from pointing that
gun in my direction,” said Biff. “He has already
tried to kill me once this morning.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet, blushing, reversed the weapon, which
he had been carrying in a highly dangerous position,
with the barrel pointing toward the
other members of the party.</p>
<p class="pindent">They went down into a gully extending several
hundred yards to the west, following the
tracks that led along the bottom of the ravine,
then turned sharply up the slope again toward
a thicket of trees. Here and there they could
see flecks of blood on the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s from the chickens,” Frank said, as
they strode along.</p>
<p class="pindent">Suddenly the dog became very active. Reaching
the top of the slope, he plunged along in a
swift run and soon disappeared among the
trees. Then they heard him howling with excitement.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s found them!” shouted Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys hastened on. When they overtook
the dog they found him frantically raising
clouds of snow as he dug among some rocks in
the depth of the thicket. He had found the
den.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys knew little or nothing about the
habits of foxes, but they reflected that the dog
would be scarcely making such a clamor unless
the animals were at home. They waited, rifles
in readiness.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Shoot ’em when they come out!” advised
Biff, capering about.</p>
<p class="pindent">The dog suddenly disappeared into the
mouth of the den. The lads heard a yelp of
pain, and the dog emerged again, his tail between
his legs. He scuttled between their legs
and headed down the home trail, howling. A
moment later he was lost from view.</p>
<p class="pindent">The lads looked at one another blankly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What happened to him?” demanded Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“One of the foxes must have bitten him,”
Joe said.</p>
<p class="pindent">A shout from Chet interrupted him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Look!”</p>
<p class="pindent">He was pointing over among the trees. The
boys saw a tawny object flash against the snow,
then another. The foxes had emerged from
their den by the back entrance, evidently
alarmed by the intrusion of the dog, and were
fleeing for their lives back toward the ravine.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet flung his rifle to his shoulder. He was
trembling with excitement, but he managed to
aim at the foremost fox, and pressed the
trigger.</p>
<p class="pindent">There was only a dull click!</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet had forgotten to load the weapon.</p>
<p class="pindent">The others were too excited to notice his discomfiture.
They were running about wildly,
each seeking a good view of the fugitives.
Frank and Biff, noticing the direction the foxes
were taking, went plunging through the snow,
back toward the rim of the ravine, with the intention
of heading the animals off.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank tripped over a hidden tree-trunk and
went sprawling headlong. He lost his rifle, and
while he was searching for it Biff passed him
and ran on toward the gully. Chet and Joe, in
the meantime, were heading toward the gully in
the opposite direction.</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff emerged at the top of the slope. He
looked down into the gully, just as Frank came
racing up.</p>
<p class="pindent">“See them?” demanded Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not yet. They must have doubled back.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys looked down into the gully. The
snow was white and unbroken. Suddenly, at
the far end of the gully they saw a movement
among the bushes. A moment later, a fox came
streaking out of the thicket, followed by its
mate. The animals did not see the lads watching
at the top of the slope.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Take your time, Biff,” advised Frank, as
he raised the rifle to his shoulder.</p>
<p class="pindent">The foxes were hampered by the deep snow,
but even at that they were racing down the
gully so quickly that the boys had to take
swift aim.</p>
<p class="pindent">Bang!</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff’s rifle spoke. The lead fox stopped
short, whirled in his tracks and darted back.
The other animal did likewise. But Frank’s
aim was more accurate.</p>
<p class="pindent">Bang!</p>
<p class="pindent">The lead fox dropped into the snow, threshed
about for a moment and lay still.</p>
<p class="pindent">The other animal raced madly away, seeking
cover. But by this time Biff had ejected the
empty shell and had taken aim again. He
pressed the trigger, sighting at the fleeing fox.</p>
<p class="pindent">This time his aim was sure. The animal
leaped high in the air, turned completely over
and fell motionless in the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We got ’em!” yelled Biff joyfully. He began
scrambling down the slope, anxious to inspect
the prize. Frank followed him. At the
bottom of the gully they came upon the dead
animals, lying only a few yards apart. Each
had been killed almost instantly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Amos Grice won’t lose any more hens after
this,” declared Frank, with satisfaction.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just got them in the nick of time!” said
Biff. “In another two seconds they would
have been back among the trees and we’d have
never seen them again.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet and Joe, attracted by the sounds of the
shots, now appeared at the top of the slope.
They were astonished when they found that the
hunt was already ended and that Frank and
Biff had slain the marauders.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re lucky, that’s all,” said Chet solemnly.
“Just lucky. It was just by chance
that the foxes headed this way instead of going
down toward where we were waiting for
them.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, <span class="it">we</span> had our rifles loaded,” said Biff
pointedly.</p>
<p class="pindent">This silenced Chet, as he did not care to
start any discussion concerning his failure to
load the rifle when he started out on a fox-hunt.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys started back toward the village,
carrying the dead bodies of the four-legged
chicken thieves with them. When Amos Grice
saw them enter the store he was almost speechless
with amazement.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Back already?” he exclaimed. “What did
you do to that dog of mine? He come back
here howlin’ his head off and he went and hid
under the woodshed and I ain’t been able to
get him out.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He found the foxes,” explained Frank
gravely.</p>
<p class="pindent">“One of them nipped his nose,” added Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And why are you lads back so soon? Can’t
catch foxes by just goin’ out for half an hour
or so,” declared Amos, wagging his head. “It’s
an all-day job, often.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Come on outside,” invited Chet proudly,
as though he had been personally responsible
for the success of the hunt.</p>
<p class="pindent">Amos Grice went outside and when he saw
the two foxes lying in the snow, he rubbed his
spectacles, as though he thought his eyes were
playing him false.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wouldn’t have believed it!” he said, at
last. “I wouldn’t have believed it! And yet I
can see ’em lyin’ there, with my own eyes. If
this don’t beat the Dutch!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We were just lucky enough to catch them at
home,” explained Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And smart enough to shoot ’em on the
run,” declared Amos Grice. “It takes some
shootin’ to get a fox, lads, for they’re mighty
tricky rascals. Well, now I can sleep in peace
at night and I’ll know that my chickens are
safe. I can sure breathe easier now that I
know them two thieves are through with
chicken stealing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He took the boys back to the store and, by
way of showing his gratitude, insisted on filling
their pockets with crackers and apples.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re welcome at my store any time,
lads,” he told them. “If ever you need any
more supplies, come right to me and—and I’ll
sell ’em to you at wholesale price.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Seeing that this, to Amos Grice, was the
height of generosity, the boys thanked him
warmly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ve had a rare good morning,” declared
Frank, “and we’re much obliged to you, Mr.
Grice, for telling us about the foxes. We
wouldn’t have missed that chase for anything.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m more’n obliged to <span class="it">you</span>,” said the old
man.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess we’d better be getting back to the
island. It’s lunch time now,” said Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">Before they left, the boys cut the brushes
from the two foxes and when they returned to
Cabin Island that afternoon they placed the
prizes in a place of honor above the fireplace.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch16">CHAPTER XVI<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Chimney</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">In</span> spite of Joe Hardy’s predictions that the
marauder would be back for his notebook, that
afternoon and the next day passed uneventfully
on Cabin Island. No one had appeared
in the vicinity of the rocks, for the boys examined
the place carefully in search of footprints
and the snow was still unbroken.</p>
<p class="pindent">The mystery surrounding Hanleigh, John
Sparewell, and the Bender postage stamp
collection was gradually receding into the background.
But to the Hardy boys it still remained
a matter of great concern, especially to
Frank. Each evening he sat down and puzzled
over the strange cipher, vainly trying to solve
the mystery it presented.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Can’t you figure it out?” asked Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It beats me,” said Frank, flinging down his
pencil. “Once in a while I think I’m on the
right track, then something always happens
and I find I’m farther away than ever.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let the cipher look after itself. Something
will turn up, I’m sure,” put in Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“But if we could only find the message of the
cipher, we wouldn’t have to wait for something
to turn up.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet looked at the message again. He shook
his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s too much for me. Don’t let it spoil
your holiday, Frank.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You know what I’m like when there’s a
mystery in the wind. And this is one of the
most mysterious puzzles we’ve ever tackled.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll get to the bottom of it yet. I’m sure
of that. Just wait. Something will turn up,”
said Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">The next day, the boys were outdoors from
morning until night, skimming over the surface
of the bay in their ice-boats, skating on an improvised
rink down by the shore, and enjoying
themselves on the ski slide. Frank, for the
time being, seemed to have dismissed the mystery
of the notebook from his mind. That evening,
as the boys sat in front of the fireplace,
the Sparewell case was not even mentioned.
It was a windy, stormy night and the cabin
creaked in the gale.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Must be a good, strong chimney to hold up
in a wind like that,” remarked Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why shouldn’t it?” said Biff. “It’s made
of solid stone.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I know; but the wind gets a terrific sweep
when it hits this island. That chimney isn’t so
new, either.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Stone chimneys will last a hundred years,”
scoffed Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet pointed to the big fireplace.</p>
<p class="pindent">“This one won’t. Look. You can see where
it is cracked already.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys inspected the chimney. They saw
that Chet had noticed something that none of
them had observed before. There was a distinct
crack across the surface of the stone near
the ceiling.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It doesn’t look any too secure at that,” remarked
Frank. “A crack like that might easily
cause a fire.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It sure could!” exclaimed Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t worry about fire so much as the
danger that the chimney might come tumbling
down in a high wind,” Chet said. “If there is
one crack like that, there may be others, higher
up. And if the chimney ever gave way—wow!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We would certainly have a nice little
shower of stone,” Biff said. “Well, why go
looking for trouble? Wait until it happens.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet insisted that he was not looking for
trouble, but that he was merely pointing out
what <span class="it">might</span> happen. Just then there was a
particularly violent gust of wind. The cabin
shook. The chimney was staunch.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I think it’s good for a few years yet,” Joe
said. “Why worry?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Their conversation about the chimney, however,
was to be recalled to the boys very forcibly
later on.</p>
<p class="pindent">The next day it was Joe’s turn to remain at
the cabin as “chief cook and bottle-washer.”
The others went out in one of the ice-boats and
made a trip as far as the village. They did not
stop at the little place, being in no mind to
incur any of Amos Grice’s long-winded conversation,
and turned about, sending the fleet
little boat swooping down into the wind. They
were about a quarter of a mile from the cabin
and just debating the advisability of making a
trip down into the cove when they heard a
sound that aroused them to a high pitch of
excitement.</p>
<p class="pindent">Crack!</p>
<p class="pindent">Sharp and clear, the sound carried through
the winter air.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The rifle!” exclaimed Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Somebody down at the rocks!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank swung the boat around toward the
island. The wind, however, was against them
and he could make little speed. He was obliged
to tack about for some time, while the others
speculated impatiently on the reason for Joe’s
signal.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just when we need speed, the wind is
against us!” groaned Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps the fellow will clear out before we
can get back.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not if I know it,” said Frank grimly.
“We’ll come around on the other side of the
island, and if he is making a getaway we can
head him off.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boat seemed to labor slowly forward at
a snail’s pace. Anxiously, the boys peered toward
the island.</p>
<p class="pindent">They could see no one.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps the shot didn’t scare him away,”
said Chet hopefully.</p>
<p class="pindent">They circled around until at last they had a
full view of the side of the island on which the
stolen supplies had been hidden. The ice was
bare. The hillside was bleak. There was no
sign of any human being.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys brought their craft around until
they were close to the rocks. They could see
footprints in the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There was somebody here, all right,” said
Frank, in excitement.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder if it was Hanleigh!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll mighty soon find out.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They brought the boat inshore and took in
the sails. Then they scrambled out, made their
way up over the rocks, and examined the footprints.
They did not lead up toward the cabin,
but instead they led along the shore around
the bend.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Follow him!” said Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not yet,” Frank advised. “I think we’d
better go up to the cabin first and find out what
Joe knows about it. Perhaps he recognized the
fellow and saw where he went.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They ploughed through the snow up to the
top of the slope. They found Joe awaiting them
in the door of the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Did you see him?” shouted Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just caught a glimpse of him,” returned
Joe, as the boys came running up to him. “I
happened to look out the window and caught
sight of somebody down among the rocks.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Who was he?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know. His back was turned to me,
and he was crouching over. He was looking for
that notebook, all right. I waited for a while,
but I still couldn’t get a good look at him, so
I went and got the rifle. By the time I got back
to the window he was gone.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Before you fired the signal shot?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes. I could hardly believe my eyes. He
just seemed to disappear into thin air. Well, I
didn’t lose any time firing the shot, I can tell
you. I could see your boat away up the bay.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“The wind was against us,” said Frank.
“We tried to get here quickly, but we didn’t
have any luck.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s still on the island,” said Joe quickly.
“I’m pretty sure of that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wonder how he got here,” remarked Chet.
“There isn’t any other ice-boat around, that
we saw.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Probably walked over from the mainland,”
Frank remarked. “Well, I guess we had better
explore a bit and see if we can’t get a sight of
him. You’re sure you didn’t recognize him,
Joe?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No. I couldn’t say if the man was Hanleigh
or not. I didn’t get a good look at him
at all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll get a good look at him,” growled
Biff. “And mighty soon, too.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I suggest that two of us take the north side
of the island and the other two take the south,”
said Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank shook his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Some one must stay here,” he decided.
“We don’t want to run the risk of losing our
supplies again. If this fellow managed to draw
us far enough away from the cabin, there’s no
telling what damage he might do. Joe, I think
you had better stay here. If you see the man
coming this way, fire another shot, and we’ll
come a-running.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Good idea!” approved Chet. “I think we
all ought to separate. Each go in a different
direction. If we catch sight of him, whistle!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank quickly directed the search. Joe was
to stay at the cabin, Chet was to go to the
northern side of the island, Biff was to explore
the south. Frank himself was to cut through
the trees in the center of the island, emerging
on the other side.</p>
<p class="pindent">They separated.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank ploughed through the snow, heading
toward the heavy growth of trees at the top
of Cabin Island. He soon reached a point from
where he could get a good view of the entire
island. He could see Biff and Chet industriously
exploring the shore lines.</p>
<p class="pindent">A little distance away, in the snow beneath
the trees, he caught sight of a line of fresh
footprints.</p>
<p class="pindent">He picked up the trail at once, and followed
the marks in the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">They led him in and out among the trees,
then veered and seemed to be directed toward
the rocks.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What am I thinking of?” said Frank, to
himself. “I’m not following the man’s trail
at all. I’m going back on it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He turned, and retraced his steps, after a
while reaching the place where he had first
found the footprints. He went on from there,
deeper into the thicket, proceeding cautiously.</p>
<p class="pindent">At last he stood still for a moment, listening.
Then he slipped in behind a tree.</p>
<p class="pindent">He heard a crackle of branches. Some one
was moving about among the trees, only a few
yards ahead.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank peeped out.</p>
<p class="pindent">He saw a dark figure emerge from behind a
clump of evergreens. The man stepped out,
looked cautiously about, then moved up the
slope in the direction of the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hanleigh!” said Frank, under his breath.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank Hardy’s first impulse was to whistle,
in order to bring the others to his assistance.
Then he paused.</p>
<p class="pindent">What did Hanleigh want? What did he plan
to do?</p>
<div><h1 id="ch17">CHAPTER XVII<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Escape</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Frank</span> was so close to the man that he recognized
him readily. He knew now that Hanleigh
was the man who had stolen their supplies
and hidden them, evidently to get the boys
to leave the island. He knew that Hanleigh
was the man who had lost the mysterious
Sparewell notebook. He wanted to know more.
If he raised the alarm now, the man would
simply refuse to talk.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank waited until the fellow had vanished
among the trees. Then he turned and made
his way toward the cabin by a short-cut. He
wanted to reach the place first and warn Joe,
so that they could better observe the man’s
actions without raising an immediate alarm.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If he thinks we don’t see him, he may give
himself away,” Frank reasoned.</p>
<p class="pindent">He reached the cabin unobserved. Hanleigh
had not yet emerged from the trees.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank found Joe standing at the window,
looking down toward the rocks.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I saw him! He’s coming this way.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Who is he?” demanded Joe eagerly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hanleigh.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I thought so all along. Is he coming here?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I think so. Look, Joe—here’s my plan. I
think he intends to come here. He imagines
we’re all out hunting for him. Let’s hide and
find out what he wants.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How about Chet and Biff?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“They’re away down at the far ends of the
island. We can capture Hanleigh any time we
want.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Where shall we hide?”</p>
<p class="pindent">They looked around hastily. If Hanleigh
came to the cabin, they knew the man would
probably search the place high and low for
the notebook which was his probable objective
in returning to the island.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll have to stay outside. No use running
any risks. We’d better hide in the bushes
until we see him come in here. Then we can
creep up and watch him through the back
window,” Frank decided.</p>
<p class="pindent">They left the cabin and ran across to a heavy
clump of bushes only a few yards away. There
they crouched, waiting.</p>
<p class="pindent">For a while, nothing happened. Then they
heard a snapping and crackling of branches
far over to one side. In a few moments, Hanleigh
came into view. He looked cautiously
from side to side, then advanced swiftly toward
the door of the cabin. There was a smile of
satisfaction upon his swarthy face. It was
quite evident that he believed the lads had departed
to search for him. Swiftly, he stepped
into the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe came out of their hiding
place. They sped quickly over to the window
and peeped inside.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh had paused uncertainly in the middle
of the room. He was looking at the fireplace.
He stepped toward it, then apparently
changed his mind, for he paused, shook his
head, and turned toward the kitchen. They
heard him rummaging about there for a few
minutes, and in a little while he returned.</p>
<p class="pindent">That he was searching for something, soon
became evident. He went over to the beds and
flung blankets, pillows and even mattresses on
the floor. With an expression of disgust, he
began going through the boys’ packsacks.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If he’s looking for the notebook he might
as well quit now,” whispered Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Where is it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“In my pocket.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh made a thorough search of the
cabin. He rummaged through the bureau and
the desk, and as his search went on, with no
success, he apparently lost his temper for he
flung things on the floor and stamped angrily
about.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s rush him before he wrecks the cabin,”
whispered Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">But Frank restrained his brother.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wait!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh came over toward the window.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys ducked out of sight. They could
hear the man talking to himself. They listened,
and they heard him mutter:</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, they won’t be able to read that
cipher, anyway, so I guess it’s all right.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank and Joe nudged one another. Hanleigh
was certainly searching for the Sparewell
notebook. The man went away from the
window. They heard a crash as, in a fit of
vicious temper, the man swept off a few of the
little ornaments some one had placed above
the fireplace.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If he’s going to start smashing things, I
guess we’d better take a hand,” remarked
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys stole around the side of the cabin.
Then they stepped suddenly across the threshold.</p>
<p class="pindent">With an exclamation of surprise, Hanleigh
swung around, facing them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Good-day, Mr. Hanleigh,” said Frank. “I
see that you have decided to pay us a little
call.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The man said nothing. He merely glared at
the boys. They could see that he was estimating
his chances of escape, but they barred the
doorway.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why don’t you wait until we’re all at
home?” asked Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You boys have no right here, anyway,”
growled the intruder.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Did you ask Mr. Jefferson about it?” inquired
Frank sweetly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I came back here to look for something I
lost the other day.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What other day? The day you came and
stole all our supplies?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know anything about your supplies.
I mean the day I was here when you fellows
first arrived.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Haven’t you been here since?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m pretty sure you have, Mr. Hanleigh.
What was the idea of hiding our food supplies?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know anything about your food
supplies, I tell you!” shouted the man, in exasperation.
“I haven’t been here since the
last time you saw me.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, I suppose we’ll have to take your
word for it,” said Frank, with a shrug. “Although
I don’t believe you for a minute. What
was it you lost? Perhaps we can help you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“My pocketbook,” growled Hanleigh, after
a moment’s silence.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Your pocketbook? Was there much money
in it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“About fifty dollars. You don’t blame me
for coming back to look for it, do you?”
sneered Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not at all. Where did you lose it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know. Somewhere on the island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not down among the rocks, by chance?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wasn’t down there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Are you sure it wasn’t a notebook?” asked
Frank quietly.</p>
<p class="pindent">The shot told. Hanleigh’s fists clenched.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No, it wasn’t a notebook,” he said thickly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, if it wasn’t a notebook, I guess we
can’t help you. Quite sure, you didn’t lose a
notebook?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know anything about a notebook.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s too bad. If it had been a notebook
you lost, instead of a pocketbook, we’d be able
to help you. We did find a notebook and we
have been wondering whom it belonged to.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What kind of notebook?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why should you ask?” said Frank. “If
you didn’t lose one, you shouldn’t be concerned.
I think you’d better sit down, Mr. Hanleigh.
We have a few things to talk over with
you before we turn you over to the police.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh went pale.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The police?” he gasped.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why, of course. You don’t suppose we’re
going to let you get away with this, do you?
You have no right here, you are trespassing
on the island, you break into our cabin and go
through all our belongings, just like a common
burglar. What did you expect?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You won’t turn me over to the police,” declared
Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh advanced toward them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Get out of my way!” he ordered.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys stood their ground.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just a minute,” said Frank. “We have
rifles here. If you try to make a getaway, we
won’t be afraid to shoot.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh hesitated.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s just a bluff,” he said weakly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Try it, and see.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll try it!” roared Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">He made a sudden lunge. Frank reached out
to seize him and grabbed the man’s arm. But
Hanleigh shook himself free, plunged forward
and collided with Joe. The boys were taken by
surprise. Joe struggled desperately, but Hanleigh
was a grown man and much stronger. He
sent Joe reeling back against the wall.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank flung himself upon the man and tried
to trip him up.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh struck out viciously with his fist.
It caught Frank full in the face. He was
obliged to relinquish his hold. Before he knew
it, Hanleigh had dashed toward the door. The
man leaped across the threshold and out into
the snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank recovered himself quickly. He ran
toward the wall and took down the little rifle.
Joe, in the meantime, raced out of the cabin in
pursuit of the fugitive.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Stop, or I’ll shoot!” Frank shouted.</p>
<p class="pindent">But the man evidently realized that Frank
would not make use of the rifle. He turned and
shook his fist in their direction. With a yell of
defiance, he disappeared among the trees.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank raised the rifle and fired two shots into
the air. His aim was partly to frighten Hanleigh
and partly to warn Chet and Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe turned.</p>
<p class="pindent">Pursuit was futile. The heavy snow hampered
his footsteps.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No use chasing him!” shouted Frank.
“Perhaps Chet and Biff will catch him. It
doesn’t matter. We know that he is the fellow
who had the notebook, and that’s the main
thing.”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch18">CHAPTER XVIII<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Cipher Solved</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Hanleigh</span> made good his escape.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet Morton and Biff Hooper, who were
widely separated at the time, heard the rifle
shots and returned posthaste to the cabin, but
they did not meet the fugitive. By the time
they reached the cabin, further pursuit was out
of the question. Looking out the window, Frank
pointed to a dark figure hastening across the
ice toward the mainland.</p>
<p class="pindent">“By the time we got one of the ice-boats out,
he would be on the shore, and we’d never find
him there,” he said. “Let him go. We learned
something, at any rate.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What happened?” clamored Chet. “All
we know is that Hanleigh was here. What did
he do?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank then told them of seeing Hanleigh
among the trees, and of returning to the cabin
to warn Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We watched him searching the place high
and low. He was looking for the notebook—there’s
no doubt of that. As a matter of fact,
we heard him say that it didn’t really matter,
because we wouldn’t be able to solve the cipher,
anyway. So then Joe and I came in and asked
him what he was doing. He tried to fool us
with some cock-and-bull story about hunting
for his pocketbook. He denied that he stole
our supplies, but he was lying, of course. I
threatened to turn him over to the police if he
didn’t tell us what he knew about the notebook,
and I guess that frightened him for he made a
dash for the door.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We weren’t ready for him,” said Joe
mournfully.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll bet he thinks twice before he comes here
again,” declared Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t think we’ve seen the last of him,”
Frank remarked. “There is something mighty
important about that notebook, and I’m sure he
is not the man to give up as easily as all that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet shook his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’ll just wait until we leave the island for
good.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t think so. He knows that we’re apt
to stumble on the secret of that cipher at any
time. I’m going to tackle that message again.
It can’t be so very difficult.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank immediately sat down at the desk, the
cipher message before him, and began figuring
on a pad of notepaper, while the other boys
set about restoring the damage their visitor
had created.</p>
<p class="pindent">First of all, he set down all the letters of the
alphabet in order, and studied them intently,
with reference to the cipher.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If I were writing a cipher,” he mused.
“How would I go about it? Perhaps this thing
is really a lot simpler than it looks.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The easiest thing to do, he thought, would be
merely to reverse the alphabet. Instead of the
letter “a” he would use the letter “z.” Instead
of the letter “b” he would use “y,” and
so on.</p>
<p class="pindent">With this in mind, he jotted down the alphabet
backward, so that he had two rows of
letters. Then he picked up the cipher again.</p>
<p class="pindent">The first word was “XZYRM.”</p>
<p class="pindent">By replacing these letters with the corresponding
letters in the other column he discovered
that he had the word “CABIN.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank leaped to his feet with a shout of delight.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ve got it!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The others came running over to the desk.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Have you solved it?” demanded Joe excitedly.
“How did you do it? What does it
say?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s as simple as a-b-c. It was so easy that
it looked hard. The man just turned the alphabet
backward. Look! The first word is
‘cabin.’ ”</p>
<p class="pindent">“The rest of it! The rest of it!” exclaimed
Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I haven’t tackled the other words yet. Wait
a minute. I’ll have them in a jiffy.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank turned to the cipher again. For a few
minutes he worked industriously. Little by
little, the complete message took shape on the
sheet of paper.</p>
<p class="pindent">At last he sat back with a sigh of satisfaction.</p>
<p class="pindent">“All serene! The cipher is solved.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Read it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank picked up the paper and read aloud:</p>
<div class="lgc" style="margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;"> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class="line">CABIN ISLAND CHIMNEY LEFT FRONT</p>
<p class="line">NINE FEET HIGH.</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->
<p class="pindent">Chet groaned with disappointment.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And what good does that do?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What good does it do? Don’t you understand?
This message refers to the chimney
right in this very cabin. All we have to do
now is examine a part of the chimney on the
left hand side, in front, nine feet from the
floor.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys were immediately plunged into excitement.
Everything else was forgotten. The
chimney became the center of interest.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now we know why Hanleigh was measuring
the chimney! Something is hidden there!”
exclaimed Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, well!” said Joe approvingly. “And
you actually figured it out all by yourself.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nine feet high,” mused Frank. “We’ll
have to get something to measure by.”</p>
<p class="pindent">A stick was obtained and the boys roughly
estimated its length as being about three feet.
Then Joe went over to the chimney. Measuring
from the floor, he marked off its length
three times until he reached a spot which he
judged would be nine feet high.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It doesn’t look any different from any other
part of the chimney,” said Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank got up on a chair and carefully examined
the chimney stone at the place to which
Joe had measured. He felt the mortar, tapped
the stone, ran his hands over the surface, but
he found nothing to indicate anything amiss.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Solid rocks and mortar,” he said, with disappointment.
“All but those few cracks.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s queer,” said Joe. “Why should
the cipher mention that part of the chimney
so particularly?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re on the wrong track, for some reason
or other.” Frank repeated the cipher message
again: “ ‘Cabin Island chimney left front nine
feet high.’ ”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t understand it,” remarked Biff.
“The message must mean <span class="it">something</span>.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank’s face suddenly lighted up.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps it means inside the chimney. If
there is anything hidden, that would be the
logical place. It couldn’t be from the outside,
for we’d have to tear the whole chimney down
to get at it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How are we going to get at it if it is hidden
inside the chimney?” Chet inquired.</p>
<p class="pindent">“One of us will just have to turn Santa Claus
for a while.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You mean, climb up nine feet into the
chimney?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sure. Why not?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Somebody else can do it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Who volunteers?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff and Joe regarded the chimney doubtfully.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll bet there’s a lot of soot in there,” muttered
Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Besides, there’s a fire on.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll put the fire out first, of course,”
Frank said. “Well, if nobody else wants to
go, I’ll do it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You will certainly need a bath when you
come out,” Chet told him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Listen.” Biff seemed a trifle ashamed because
of his reluctance to enter the chimney,
“It’s a sort of messy job, and Frank shouldn’t
have to do it just because the rest of us don’t
like the idea. Suppose we draw lots for it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s fair enough,” Joe agreed. “The
fellow who draws the short straw goes up the
chimney.”</p>
<p class="pindent">There were no straws available but the boys
broke up some small sticks, leaving one considerably
shorter than the others. Frank held
the four sticks between the palms of his hands
so that only the tops were visible. Biff drew
first—one of the long sticks. Joe was next,
and the drawing was abruptly terminated, for
he held the short one.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s up to me, I guess,” he said, with a
grimace. “Oh, well. It won’t be so bad. Perhaps
I’ll find a fortune in diamonds hidden inside
that chimney.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll all take turns at scrubbing you when
you come out,” Chet consoled him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll have to wait until the fire dies down,
first of all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank took the poker and broke up the burning
log in the fireplace.</p>
<p class="pindent">“In the meantime, you’d better get into some
old clothes, Joe,” he said.</p>
<p class="pindent">While they waited for the fire to burn itself
out, Joe changed into some garments found in
a shed that were so old and disreputable that
the soot would make no appreciable difference.
Much as the boys wanted to learn the secret of
the chimney, none of them envied Joe his task,
and, to tell the truth, he regarded it with some
misgivings himself.</p>
<p class="pindent">At last the fire had burned so low that a
dipperful of water quenched the embers, and
when the smoke had cleared away, Joe stepped
into the big fireplace. He glanced up.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Dark as a cellar!” he observed.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet came forward with his flashlight.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I didn’t think it would be useful so soon,”
he said, as he handed it over. “Away you go!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe seized the flashlight and began his ascent
into the chimney.</p>
<p class="pindent">The stones were large and rough, affording
a good foothold. No sooner had Joe begun
his climb than a shower of soot descended into
the fireplace. The lads heard a smothered
gurgle.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll bet that chimney hasn’t been cleaned
out since the cabin was built,” said Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m sure of it!” gasped Joe, from inside.
Then there was another gurgle and Joe said
no more because he had received a mouthful of
soot.</p>
<p class="pindent">Those below could hear him scrambling
about inside, and, by peering up into the fireplace,
they could see the reflection of the flashlight.
More soot continued to pour down the
chimney. Joe was evidently having a bad
time of it.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wonder what he’ll find,” speculated Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Soot,” said Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">They waited. Then they heard a muffled cry
of dismay.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the matter?” they shouted.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m stuck! I got up here, but now I can’t
get back.” Joe evidently gave a violent lunge
for freedom, because an unusually heavy
shower of soot followed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Come on, fellows! Don’t stand down there
doing nothing!” he clamored. “Get me out
of this before I smother!”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch19">CHAPTER XIX<br/> <span class="sub-head">Disappointment</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Frank Hardy</span> sprang forward.</p>
<p class="pindent">He crouched down in the fireplace and looked
up. He could see Joe’s wildly plunging feet a
short distance above.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Kick yourself free!” advised Chet helpfully.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s all I can do—kick!” replied the
prisoner. “My elbows are wedged in against
these rocks and I can’t get loose.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hold steady a second,” Frank said. “I’ll
try to drag you out.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He reached up and seized one of Joe’s feet.
He tugged, but Joe was evidently firmly wedged
in the chimney.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Keep on climbing and come out at the top,”
called Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wait till I get you!” answered Joe. “This
isn’t funny.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Come on, you chaps,” said Frank, to the
others. “Lend a hand. We’ll just have to drag
him out by main force.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Gingerly, Biff and Chet entered the fire
place. The three boys were crowded together.
They reached up to grab Joe by the feet just
as the prisoner made another struggle and
sent more soot pouring down on his rescuers.
Within a few seconds, the three were liberally
covered with the black substance.</p>
<p class="pindent">“All together, now,” said Frank, when they
had grabbed Joe by the ankles. “Pull!”</p>
<p class="pindent">They pulled.</p>
<p class="pindent">With surprising quickness, Joe came loose.
He came plunging down into the fireplace on
top of the others, each of whom lost his balance
and sat down heavily. There was more
soot.</p>
<p class="pindent">The four lads were piled in a heap in the
fireplace, so blackened and dirty as to be unrecognizable.
Joe, of course, had the worst of
it. His face was as black as coal. He was a
bedraggled, sooty object, but not much sorrier
sight than his companions.</p>
<p class="pindent">As they sat up and looked at one another,
the humor of the situation suddenly struck
them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, boy! You chaps look funny!” yelled
Chet, and burst into a howl of laughter.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No funnier than you!” roared Biff. “You
look like a chimney sweep.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They scrambled out of the fireplace, laughing
in spite of themselves.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If somebody could have seen us all when
Joe came down out of that chimney!” laughed
Frank. “I’ll bet we looked funny. What a
glorious tumble!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I vote we all take a bath,” said Chet mournfully.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We certainly need it. And the fire is out
and we have no hot water.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They looked glumly at each other, black and
wretched, and then they began to laugh again.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What did you find, Joe?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Soot!” returned the victim.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We know you did. But what else did you
find? Or didn’t you have a chance to explore
the chimney?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I explored it, all right. And I can tell you
this—there’s nothing hidden up there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">This announcement was a shock to them all.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Didn’t you find anything?” demanded
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe shook his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I turned on the flashlight and examined the
inside of the chimney very carefully. The
rocks and mortar are just as solid inside as
they are on the outside. I didn’t find a trace of
anything unusual.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You looked on the left hand side, at the
front?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Exactly as the cipher said. And I tried to
figure it out at about nine feet from the floor.
Just to be sure, I examined every inch of the
chimney on that side. I was just going higher
when I got stuck.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Even the grime could not hide the disappointment
expressed in the boys’ faces just
then.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess that message was just a fake,” said
Biff finally.</p>
<p class="pindent">But the Hardy boys would not agree with
this.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If it is a fake, why was Hanleigh so frightened
lest we would be able to read it?” asked
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” shrugged Biff, “if it isn’t a fake,
why isn’t there something queer about that
place in the chimney? We’ve examined it from
the front, and Joe has examined it from the inside,
and there is certainly nothing hidden
there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t understand it,” Frank admitted.
“Just the same, I believe that message means
something. It is certainly disappointing to
find ourselves up against a blank wall just
when we thought we were going to solve the
whole mystery.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys lighted the fire again and after they
had heated water they scrubbed themselves
thoroughly and had a good cleaning-up. Within
an hour they were presentable again, the soot
had been swept up from the floor, and all evidences
of their adventure in the chimney had
been removed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder,” suggested Joe, “if there is another
Cabin Island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not in Barmet Bay,” said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps somewhere else. Perhaps this
message refers to an island in some other part
of the country altogether. Perhaps Hanleigh
merely guessed that this was the place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“There may be something in that. It’s just
possible that Hanleigh is in the same boat as
we are, and that we are all being fooled.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” said Chet, “we’ve done the best we
could, and there is something wrong somewhere,
so why should we worry about it any
longer? We came here for an outing—not to
solve puzzles.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” declared Biff. “If this chap
Hanleigh comes back we’ll try to get the truth
out of him, but we won’t do ourselves any good
by racking our brains over this business.
Forget it!”</p>
<p class="pindent">So the subject of the cipher message was
officially dropped.</p>
<p class="pindent">To Frank, however, their failure to discover
anything of importance in the big chimney had
been very disappointing. He had been elated
by his success in solving the mystery of the
cipher message and he had looked upon the entire
riddle as being near solution. The setback
was a hard pill to swallow. In spite of the fact
that Biff thought the message was a fake, Frank
clung stubbornly to the belief that it was genuine
and important.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hanleigh wouldn’t have made such a fuss
about it,” he argued, “unless there was something
important behind it all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He regretted Hanleigh’s escape now. Frank
longed to meet the man again. He wanted another
chance to force the fellow into an explanation
of how he came to be in possession of
Sparewell’s notebook. And, above all, he
wanted to know what the cipher message referred
to. What was hidden in the chimney?</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll find out,” he insisted. “Perhaps, in
the long run, it will all turn out to be just as
simple as that cipher.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He looked gloomily at the big chimney.</p>
<p class="pindent">What mystery did it hide? Was there any
mystery? Was the whole message just a hoax?</p>
<p class="pindent">He could not believe this. In any case, Hanleigh
knew something about the mysterious
Sparewell—else how did he get possession of
the notebook? And in this respect alone the
mystery was worth following up.</p>
<p class="pindent">That evening, the Hardy boys and their
chums were gathered around the fire. Chet
and Joe were playing checkers. Biff had
rigged up the punching bag, had donned his
boxing gloves, and was making the bag drum
in a lively manner. Frank was still studying
the cipher, wondering if there might not be
some little clue he had missed. Once in a while
he referred to the pages of the notebook again.</p>
<p class="pindent">It was growing colder outside and the boys
had to keep a roaring fire in order that the
cabin should be warm enough. The wind was
rising and there were fitful slashes of snow
against the windows.</p>
<p class="pindent">“More dirty weather!” growled Biff, dealing
a particularly vicious blow at the punching
bag.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Seems it’s done nothing but snow since we
came here,” said Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s your move,” Joe reminded him.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet moved his checker and Joe promptly
captured it, with a king as well.</p>
<p class="pindent">The scene was peaceful. The boys would
have been interested if they had known of what
was happening in a little house in Bayport just
then.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was preparing to return to Cabin
Island.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch20">CHAPTER XX<br/> <span class="sub-head">When Rogues Fall Out</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Hanleigh,</span> who had taken up his quarters in
a small bungalow at the eastern limits of Bayport,
had made an appointment for that evening
with Tad Carson and Ike Nash, the two
youths who had taken him to Cabin Island in
their ice-boat on the occasion of his first meeting
with the Hardy boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">An alarm clock ticking on the kitchen table
showed the hour as eight o’clock. Hanleigh,
listening to the rising wind, made a gesture of
impatience.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the matter with them?” he growled.
“Can’t they ever get here when I tell them?”</p>
<p class="pindent">He was obliged to wait another ten minutes
before the door of the bungalow opened, and
Ike Nash slouched in, followed by his companion.</p>
<p class="pindent">They tossed their caps on the table and
nodded coolly to Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I thought I told you to be here at half-past
seven!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Tad Carson shrugged.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s the time you told us, all right. We
just couldn’t make it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Keep me cooling my heels while you shoot
another game of pool, I suppose!” snapped the
man.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You haven’t anything else to do,” replied
Nash. He sat down and put his feet on the
table. “Well, what’s it all about?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I want to go over to the island to-morrow.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What island?” asked Tad Carson.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What island do you think? <span class="it">The</span> island, of
course. Cabin Island. I want to go there early
to-morrow morning.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s stopping you?” asked Nash insolently.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, you know why I sent for you? I
can’t walk there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The two youths glanced at one another.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I suppose you want us to take you over in
the ice-boat again, eh?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Of course. I want you to call here for me
at seven o’clock in the morning. Have the ice-boat
ready so we can make a quick start.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re giving orders to-night, ain’t you,
Hanleigh?” said Ike. “What if it doesn’t suit
us to go?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why shouldn’t it suit you? Neither of you
is working.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s all right. Tad and I were just talking
it over as we came up here to-night. We’d
like to know more about this business. Hanleigh.
We have an idea there may be something
crooked about it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh stared at them incredulously. That
these allies should be inclined to back out had
never entered his calculations.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Crooked!” he exclaimed. “Of course not.
I’m thinking of buying the island and naturally
I want to look the place over before I make an
offer.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes? Why don’t you wait until summer?
The winter is no time of year to inspect an
island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh became angry.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Will you two mind your own business!”
he blustered. “Is it any concern of yours why
I want to go to the island. I pay you well for
carrying me there, and all you have to do is
keep your mouths shut.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We won’t keep ’em shut,” remarked Nash,
“unless we get more money than you have been
giving us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ve been paying you very well, I think.
Ten dollars each is very good money for a trip
that most boys would be glad to take just for
the fun of it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We don’t run the ice-boat just for our
health,” said Carson. “Every time we go
there we have to hang around and freeze until
you are ready to come back. You won’t even
let us go up to the cabin with you. I’d like to
know what there is about that place that interests
you so much.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh gazed at them narrowly. So! They
were beginning to suspect him!</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ve told you,” he said irritably. “I may
buy the place, and naturally I want to look the
cabin over.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, there wouldn’t be any harm in letting
us look it over too. Listen, Mr. Hanleigh—you’re
up to something, and we know it. If you
don’t want us to go to Mr. Jefferson and tell
him about your visits to the island, you had
better kick in with some more money.” Tad
Carson sat back and winked at his companion.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was almost speechless with wrath.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why—why—you young scoundrels!” he
spluttered. “This is blackmail. Why, it’s a
hold-up!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Call it what you like!” sneered Nash.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You can’t tell Jefferson anything. I have
his full permission to go to the island at any
time I want.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Is that so? Now, look here, Mr. Hanleigh—you’ve
been trying to tell us that you may
buy the island. Now, we happen to know that
you made Mr. Jefferson an offer for the island
and he told you he wouldn’t sell at any price.
How about that?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s—it’s false.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s the truth,” said Nash.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Who told you?” demanded Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Never mind who told us. We know more
about you than you think. Now, if you are up
to any funny business, we won’t put anything
in your way, as long as you come through and
treat us fair.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I have treated you fairly. I have always
paid you well.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ten dollars a trip,” laughed Tad Carson.
“That’s all right if you were just going there
to look the place over, as you told us. But
you’ve got a bigger game on, and it will probably
be worth a lot of money to you. We want
to be in on it. If you’re up to something
crooked, we’re running the risk of being arrested
for helping you. We won’t take a chance
like that for ten dollars each.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ve told you everything is perfectly fair
and above-board,” Hanleigh insisted. “Why
should you try to hold me up? If I hear any
more of this nonsense, I’ll hire somebody else
to take me to the island.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Try it, and see what happens,” said Nash
darkly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What will happen?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll tell Jefferson.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Tell him. I’m not afraid.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s a pretty good bluff, Mr. Hanleigh,
but it won’t work with us,” said Carson. “You
have some crooked game on, and you don’t
want Jefferson to know about it. Why were
you so anxious to buy the island? Why won’t
he sell it to you? That’s what we’d like to
know.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh became more amicable.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now listen here, boys,” he said smoothly;
“it doesn’t do any of us any good to quarrel
like this. If you think you’re not being paid
enough, I guess I can let you have a little more.
I’ll tell you what I’ll do. I’ll pay you each
twenty dollars to take me to the island to-morrow
morning. That’s fair enough, isn’t
it?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Nash laughed scornfully.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now we <span class="it">know</span> you have some game on,” he
said. “Twenty dollars won’t be enough. We
want a hundred dollars apiece.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“A hundred! It’s an outrage. I won’t pay
it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Nash got up. “All right. Come on, Tad.
We may as well go and see Mr. Jefferson now.
He’ll probably be glad to pay us well for the
information we can give him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The young men got up and were moving toward
the door when Hanleigh sprang to his
feet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not so fast!” he begged. “Sit down and
let us talk this over.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the use of talking when you won’t
listen to reason?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh regarded the pair for a moment.
Then he said:</p>
<p class="pindent">“You are both very much mistaken. There
is nothing crooked about my visits to the island.
Still, I wouldn’t want you to be running to Mr.
Jefferson and bothering him with a silly story
that would only cause a lot of trouble. Now,
I’ve changed my mind about going to the island
to-morrow. I’ll go the day after to-morrow,
instead.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How about our hundred dollars?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s an outrageous price. Fifty dollars——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No! A hundred or nothing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh sighed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I haven’t got that much money with me.
You boys seem to think I’m made of money.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You were willing to spend a good fat sum to
buy the island,” Nash reminded him. “There’s
something fishy about the whole affair. Is
there a gold mine on that island?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh laughed uneasily.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re worrying yourselves about something
that doesn’t concern you in the least.
Give me a day to raise the money and you
shall have it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Nash glanced significantly at his chum.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now, you’re talking sense,” he said approvingly.
“You pay us a hundred each and we’ll
take you there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“The day after to-morrow.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just as you say. But we must have the
money before we start.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And you won’t say anything to Jefferson?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not a word. But if you don’t come across
with the money——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll pay it to you. Meet me here to-morrow
night.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“All right.” Nash and Carson went toward
the door. “You’ve saved yourself a lot of trouble,
Mr. Hanleigh.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They went away. No sooner had the door
closed behind them than Hanleigh laughed
sardonically.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A hundred dollars!” he exclaimed. “The
young pups! Thought they could make a fool
out of me. Well, they’ll have to get up in the
middle of the night to get ahead of me. By the
time they get wise to themselves I’ll be at the
island and back, and I won’t pay for the privilege
either.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Next morning, Hanleigh was up early. It
was snowing heavily and there was a bitter
wind, but he meant to go to Cabin Island that
day. He knew where Tad Carson and Ike Nash
kept their ice-boat and he made his way down
to the little building unobserved.</p>
<p class="pindent">The door was protected by a stout padlock,
but Hanleigh picked up a heavy iron bar that
stood against the side of the building and attacked
the lock. He smashed it with a single
blow, opened the door, and went inside. He
brought out the ice-boat and unfurled its sails.</p>
<p class="pindent">There was snow on the ice, but the craft
moved across the surface under the impetus of
a strong wind. Hanleigh sat at the tiller.
Within a few moments the boat was scudding
down the bay. Hanleigh chuckled to himself as
he thought of the way in which he had outwitted
Ike Nash and Tad Carson.</p>
<p class="pindent">The ice-boat sped on down the bay into the
driving snow. The storm was increasing in
fury. The wind hurtled the craft along at
terrific speed. Hanleigh, although he had no
experience in managing the boat, got along
very well, and within a short time he saw the
dark mass of Cabin Island looming out of the
storm.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A good day for it!” he chuckled. “I won’t
let those boys on the island make a monkey out
of me as they did the last time.”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch21">CHAPTER XXI<br/> <span class="sub-head">A Cry for Help</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">When</span> the Hardy boys and their chums
awakened that morning they found that the
storm of the night before had increased in fury
to such an extent that the mainland was no
longer visible.</p>
<p class="pindent">The island was completely isolated. As far
as the eye could reach, the boys could see nothing
but swirling sheets of snow.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Looks as if we’ll have to stay indoors to-day,”
said Frank, as he lit the fire.</p>
<p class="pindent">“A nuisance!” Chet grumbled. “I thought
we could go out in the ice-boat this morning.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’d probably get lost out in that storm.
It certainly is blowing up a fine blizzard!” Biff
remarked.</p>
<p class="pindent">Joe looked out the window.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder how our boats are faring,” he
said. “With a wind like that, they’re liable to
be damaged.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I was thinking of that,” Frank replied.
“After breakfast we had better go down and
see that they’re all right.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The meal over, the boys donned their outdoor
clothes and set out from the cabin. The snow
had drifted over the path and they were obliged
to break a new trail down the slope toward the
little cove in which the ice-boats were left.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What a dirty day!” exclaimed Chet. “I
think we’re just as well off indoors in weather
like this.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I should say so,” agreed the others.</p>
<p class="pindent">They found that the ice-boats were weathering
the gale well. No damage had been done,
but the boys took all possible precautions in
making the boats secure. While they were
doing this, Joe gazed out into the storm.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I must be dreaming,” he said at last.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why?” asked Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It hardly seems possible, but I’m sure I saw
an ice-boat go speeding past, out in the bay.
It was just a shadow in the snow.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What would an ice-boat be doing out here
on a day like this?” scoffed Chet. “You certainly
must have been dreaming.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys gazed out into the blinding wall of
snow. They saw nothing, and they were just
about to turn away, branding Joe’s statement
as a false alarm, when they heard a loud crash.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s that?”</p>
<p class="pindent">The noise came from somewhere out in the
storm, but it was so loud that the lads knew it
had been caused by something not far from
shore.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There <span class="it">is</span> something out there!” cried Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If it was an ice-boat it must have been
wrecked,” Frank declared. “I guess we had
better investigate.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They went on down the shore a short distance,
still gazing out into the driving snow,
but there was no solution to the mystery. They
could see nothing, and they heard nothing but
the howl of the wind. Frank turned up his
coat collar.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t care to venture very far away from
the island,” he said doubtfully. “It would be
mighty easy to get lost out there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wonder what caused that crash!”</p>
<p class="pindent">They were just about to give up the search
when they heard a faint cry.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Help! Help!”</p>
<p class="pindent">It was a man’s voice.</p>
<p class="pindent">“That settles it,” declared Frank. “There
has been an accident out there and some one is
hurt. He’ll freeze to death if we leave him out
there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll get him. Listen again, fellows, and
see where the sound is coming from.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The cry was repeated. They judged that the
man, whoever he was, was out in the blizzard,
almost immediately in front of the place where
they were now standing.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s go,” said Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">He took the lead, left the island, and plunged
out into the snowy waste. The others followed.
Once beyond shelter of the island they caught
the full force of the wind. It came howling
down on them, flinging snow about them in
clouds. They could scarcely see one another,
so furious was the blizzard.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Help!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re coming!” shouted Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">In a few moments they could see a dark mass
ahead.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Ice-boat,” grunted Joe. “I told you so.
All smashed up.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The ice-boat lay on its side, its mast broken
in two, its sails torn to ribbons, its understructure
smashed. It had evidently been going at a
good rate of speed and had overturned when it
swung too far over in the wind. They could
see the figure of a man pinned beneath the
wreckage.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hastily, the boys knelt down to extricate the
victim. When Frank saw who the man was, he
gave a shout of surprise.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hanleigh!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Get me out of here,” snarled Hanleigh.
“My leg is broken.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The lads wasted no time in dragging their
enemy from beneath the wreckage of the ice-boat.
He was groaning with pain.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t walk!” he moaned. “You’ll have
to carry me. My leg is broken.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys raised Hanleigh on their shoulders.
There was no use trying to save the ice-boat.
It was wrecked beyond all chance of repair.</p>
<p class="pindent">“How did you come to be out here on a day
like this?” demanded Frank, as they started
the journey back to Cabin Island.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh made no reply. He was moaning
with pain. His right leg hung limply, but
Frank’s practiced eye saw at a glance that it
was not broken.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Sprained his ankle, most likely,” he said
to Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Lucky I wasn’t killed,” groaned Hanleigh.
“I was going at terrific speed, and I couldn’t
get the boat stopped. I tried to lower sail and
the wind turned the whole boat over on top of
me.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Anybody who goes ice-boating in a storm
like this deserves whatever happens to him,”
observed Chet unsympathetically.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was a heavy man, and by the time
the boys reached the island they were forced
to stop and rest. Then, puffing from their labors,
they raised the injured man to their
shoulders again and began to climb up the
slope.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m glad you heard me shouting,” muttered
Hanleigh. “I would have frozen to death out
there.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“A lucky chance for you that we heard you
at all,” Joe said. “If we had been up in the
cabin we would never have heard a whisper.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank nudged his brother.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Lucky for us, too,” he said. “Now we’ll
be able to make him talk.”</p>
<p class="pindent">At last they reached the cabin. They put
Hanleigh on one of the beds, and then Frank
examined the injured leg. As he had suspected,
it was not broken, although the ankle was
badly sprained. Having bathed it and put liniment
and a bandage on the injured limb, Frank
looked down at Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re all right. Don’t make such a fuss.
It’s only a sprain.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Lucky it wasn’t worse. My, I’m glad you
boys heard me calling.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Pretty nice to have friends near at hand,
isn’t it?” said Frank. “Now that you’re here,
Hanleigh, I think you’d better tell us why you
were snooping around the island in the first
place.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I wasn’t coming to the island,” returned
Hanleigh lamely.</p>
<p class="pindent">“As if we’ll believe that!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now, boys,” said Hanleigh placatingly,
“let’s forget all our little differences and let
bygones be bygones. You have saved my life
and I’m very grateful to you. I didn’t mean
you any harm.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why were you coming here to-day?” insisted
Frank.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll tell you. After what happened the
other day, I worried a lot. I was afraid you
lads might think I was up to something crooked,
and I wanted to make things square with you.
So I decided to come here and make friends
with you. And then I was going to look for
that pocketbook I lost.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Was that the only reason?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Absolutely the only reason.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What interests you here so much?” asked
Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m interested in the island because I want
to buy it. There is no other reason beyond
that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why did you steal our supplies, then?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Now, boys,” said Hanleigh, “what’s the use
of going into all that? I didn’t take your supplies.
I had nothing to do with it. I don’t
see why you should accuse me of a thing like
that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Bluff!” said Frank. “Nothing but bluff!
Your pocketbook story is a fairy tale. Well,
Mr. Hanleigh, you’re in a bad fix, you know.
You won’t be able to get back to town unless
we take you there, and I’m warning you that
unless you tell us the reason for your visits
here, we intend to bring you in and turn you
over to the police on a charge of trespass.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh’s eyes narrowed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You wouldn’t do that?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Wouldn’t we? You’d better tell us what
you know.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know anything. You’re just persecuting
me. I merely came out here to make
friends with you this morning and you won’t
give me a chance.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We know you too well. What’s it to be,
Mr. Hanleigh—are you going to talk or are
you going to jail?”</p>
<p class="pindent">The victim groaned miserably.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t see why you try to make everything
so unpleasant for me,” he complained. “You
have me at your mercy and you’re just taking
an unfair advantage.” He rubbed his sprained
ankle tenderly. “I’m tired. I want to go to
sleep.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps after you’ve had a sleep, you’ll
think better of it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh shrugged. He removed his coat,
folded it very carefully and placed it under his
head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Do you want a pillow?” asked Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hang your coat up on the wall,” Frank
suggested.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No. No. I’m quite all right,” returned
Hanleigh hastily. “I’m quite comfortable as
I am. I wish you boys would leave me alone.
I want to sleep.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He placed his head on the folded coat.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys moved away.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We can’t pump him,” whispered Frank.
“Better leave him alone for a while.”</p>
<p class="pindent">With a great deal of groaning and muttering,
Hanleigh composed himself for slumber. In a
short while his heavy breathing told the boys
that he was asleep.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch22">CHAPTER XXII<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Letter</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">“Just</span> like a clam, that fellow Hanleigh!”
exclaimed Biff Hooper.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He sure doesn’t want to talk,” Frank
Hardy agreed. “I thought we could scare
him, but I guess there’s nothing doing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He didn’t come back here to make friends
with us. He was making another try at that
notebook, that’s what he was doing. It must
be mighty important to him.” Joe was eyeing
the coat Hanleigh had folded so carefully and
put under his head. “Wonder why he wouldn’t
take a pillow. He wasn’t taking any chances
on letting that coat get away from him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys looked at one another significantly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps he has some important papers in
the pocket,” whispered Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Fine chance we have of getting at them.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t know about that,” said Frank.
“Where there’s a will, there’s a way. Let him
sleep a little longer and we’ll see if we can’t
get at them.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The storm raged fiercely outside the cabin.
The blizzard had grown in fury. The trees,
bowed before the bitter wind. The boys idled
about, waiting for the moment when they could
attempt to secure the coat from beneath the
head of their sleeping enemy.</p>
<p class="pindent">At last Frank nodded.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was snoring. Frank went over to
the wall and took down his own coat. He
folded it carefully, then beckoned to Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">Together, the boys tiptoed over to the head
of the bed.</p>
<p class="pindent">While Joe held Frank’s coat, Frank gently
grasped the coat under Hanleigh’s head and
began to withdraw it.</p>
<p class="pindent">The man stirred uneasily. His snoring
ceased.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys stepped back.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh turned over on his side. The coat
was almost entirely free. The boys waited a
few moments, then went toward the man again.</p>
<p class="pindent">With a quick movement, Frank drew the coat
from beneath his head, while at the same instant
Joe slipped the other in its place. They
stepped back.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh groaned in his sleep, stirred again.
His groping hand reached for the coat and he
drew it closer to him. In a few moments his
snoring again resounded through the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">The boys retreated to the kitchen.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I don’t like the idea of going through a
man’s private papers,” said Frank reluctantly;
“but in this case I think there is some excuse.
Hanleigh is up to some crooked business here
and it’s our duty to find out what it is.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” agreed the others.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank felt the inside pocket of the coat. He
encountered a bulky sheaf of papers and these
he removed. Most of them were letters, but
one in particular appeared to be a legal document.</p>
<p class="pindent">He unfolded this document and brought it
over to the window. The others crowded about
him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Better keep an eye on Hanleigh, in case he
awakes,” Frank suggested. “Watch him, will
you, Biff?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff went over to the door.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s still asleep,” he whispered.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Good.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank read the document over to himself.
Then he gave a low whistle of amazement.</p>
<p class="pindent">“This clears up a lot of things,” he said.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Read it,” whispered Joe anxiously.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank read the document. It was a letter
addressed to Hanleigh and was from a lawyer
in New York City. It was as follows:</p>
<div class="blockquote">
<p class="noindent">“<span class="sc">Dear Sir</span>:</p>
<p class="pindent">“This is to advise you that your late uncle, John
Sparewell, named you as sole heir in his will, which
has just been probated. Under the provisions of the
will you will benefit to the extent of all Mr. Sparewell’s
property, consisting of two lots of ground on
the outskirts of Bayport, cash in the bank amounting
to three hundred and fifty dollars, and all personal
papers and belongings. In his will, Mr. Sparewell
made particular mention of a notebook which was to
be given into your hands after his death, stressing
its importance as containing information of great
value. He also gave these instructions:</p>
<p class="pindent">“ ‘My nephew is to take this notebook, with the
accompanying key to the cipher which I shall leave
in a sealed envelope, and when he has made himself
aware of the contents of the message I wish him to go
to the place mentioned and procure the object referred
to. This is to be returned to its rightful
owner. In return for this favor, I name my nephew,
George Hanleigh, as my sole heir.’</p>
<p class="pindent">“We hereby take pleasure in forwarding to you the
notebook and the sealed envelope mentioned by our
deceased client and trust you will carry out his instructions
to the letter.</p>
<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:4em;">Yours very truly,</p>
<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;"><span class="sc">Flint and Flint</span>, Attorneys at Law.”</p>
</div>
<p class="pindent">When Frank had concluded the reading of
this document there were expressions of amazement
from the other boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">“So that’s how he came to get the notebook!”
said Chet. “John Sparewell was Hanleigh’s
uncle!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And Sparewell,” observed Frank, “is
dead.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, that clears up so much of the mystery,”
said Joe. “But it looks as if Hanleigh
is up against it just as much as we were. We
know the secret of the cipher message and it
didn’t do us any good.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Perhaps he knows something else. Sparewell
may have given him further instructions
in that sealed envelope.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank looked through the other papers he
had taken from Hanleigh’s pocket. He was interrupted
by a sudden whisper from Biff.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Be careful!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s the matter?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He’s waking up.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank thrust the papers back into the coat
pocket. There would be trouble when Hanleigh
learned how he had been tricked. Then Biff
sighed with relief.</p>
<p class="pindent">“False alarm. He turned over again. He’s
still asleep.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank went back to the papers, relieved. He
searched through them carefully. But he did
not find what he sought. There were no further
references to the cipher, to the sealed envelope,
or to John Sparewell.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nothing else here,” he reported finally.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’d better put the coat back under his
head,” Joe suggested.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank returned the papers to the pocket in
which he had found them.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re liable to wake him up if we try to
put the coat back now,” he said. “I think we
ought to wait until he has had his sleep. Then
the rest of you can keep him occupied while I
slip the coat back where it belongs.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And we’ll ask him what he knows about
Sparewell,” said Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Oh, we’ll have questions to ask him, never
fear. He won’t want us to go to Elroy Jefferson
with the news about Sparewell.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Outside, the storm was at its height. They
heard a distant crash.</p>
<p class="pindent">One of the trees at the edge of the cliff had
fallen before the force of the gale. The wind
was sweeping across the island at terrific
speed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If this keeps up, we’d better watch ourselves!”
remarked Biff. “There are a couple
of big trees right near the place. If they blow
over, they’re liable to wreck the cabin.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Certainly is a wicked wind!” Frank agreed.
“And it doesn’t seem to be dying down,
either.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hardly were the words out of his mouth than
there was a rending, crackling sound immediately
above the cabin. Then, with a rush and
a roar, something went sweeping past the window.
At the same instant there came a grinding
noise, followed by a thud and a crash on the
roof.</p>
<p class="pindent">“One of the trees blew down!” shouted Biff,
in alarm.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The chimney is going!” warned Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">Crash!</p>
<p class="pindent">Another impact on the roof. There was a
shower of mortar and fragments of stone in
the fireplace.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Back to the kitchen, fellows!” yelled Frank.
“The chimney is falling in!”</p>
<div><h1 id="ch23">CHAPTER XXIII<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Chimney Collapses</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">Frank Hardy</span> ran over to the bed where
Hanleigh was sleeping. The uproar on the
roof had already aroused the man somewhat
and he was stirring restlessly. Frank shook
him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Get up!” he shouted. “The chimney is
caving in!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh sat up quickly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What?” he demanded, rubbing his eyes.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Get up! It’s dangerous here. The storm
blew down one of the trees and it struck the
chimney!”</p>
<p class="pindent">There was another crash. Stones and rocks
went bumping and rolling down the roof, and
more débris came tumbling into the fireplace.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh needed no second urging. He
sprang out of bed, then halted with a groan of
pain.</p>
<p class="pindent">“My ankle!” he said.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ll help you.” Frank seized him by the
arm, and Hanleigh hobbled out into the kitchen,
where the others were gathered. The cabin
was creaking and swaying in the violent wind.
Every little while they could hear an additional
fragment of the chimney come crashing down
onto the roof.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Is the chimney coming down?” demanded
Hanleigh eagerly.</p>
<p class="pindent">They looked at him in surprise. Instead of
being frightened, the man actually appeared
glad of the mishap.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If that other tree blows over and hits it,
the chimney will be wrecked,” said Frank
sharply. “I can’t see anything to look forward
to in that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was silent, but there was a look of
undisguised elation in his swarthy face.</p>
<p class="pindent">The wind was a hurricane by now.</p>
<p class="pindent">Wilder and wilder it blew. The snow was so
heavy that the boys could not see more than a
few feet beyond the window. The chimney was
no longer breaking up and the steady thump
and clatter of rocks on the roof had ceased.
The fireplace was half full of mortar and bits
of stone.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’d better stay where we are,” said
Frank. “We’re safe enough in the kitchen. If
that chimney collapses it will mean trouble for
any one in the outer room.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh limped over to a chair and sat
down.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Might as well be comfortable,” he muttered.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Certainly,” agreed Frank. He swung
around to face the man. Then, quite calmly,
he said: “When did John Sparewell die?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was taken completely off his guard
by the sudden question.</p>
<p class="pindent">“About eighteen months ago—” he began.
Then he halted. “What do you know about
John Sparewell?” he demanded.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We know he was your uncle. And we know
he disappeared from Elroy Jefferson’s home
with the rosewood box fifteen years ago. We
know a lot more than you think, Hanleigh.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You found that notebook!” shouted the
man.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Of course.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“You had no right to read it. The notebook
was mine. I’ll have the law on you for reading
it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“The law will be interested in that notebook,
Hanleigh. You’re none too anxious to let the
police see it, or Mr. Jefferson either.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The shot told. Hanleigh’s lips curved in a
snarl.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What if Jefferson does see the notebook?
What do I care if you turn it over to him or to
the police? It won’t do any of you any good.
The only important thing in the whole book is
written in cipher, and I defy you to solve it!”</p>
<p class="pindent">He sat back, triumphantly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We have solved it,” Joe told him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh started forward, his eyes staring.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We solved the cipher.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Consternation was written on Hanleigh’s
face. He groaned.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You didn’t—you haven’t found it?” he
gasped.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Found what?”</p>
<p class="pindent">The man’s eyes became cunning.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Don’t you know?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank shook his head.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We have found nothing, so far. I think
you’d better tell us what you were looking for.
What should we have found?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh sat back, sighing with relief.</p>
<p class="pindent">“There is nothing,” he said. “Not now.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why—have you found it already?”</p>
<p class="pindent">He nodded.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes. I found it several days ago. There
is nothing for you boys to gain by looking further.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Then why,” asked Joe, “did you come back
here to-day?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh licked his lips, and was silent.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re bluffing again, Hanleigh,” said
Frank. “If you had found what you were
looking for, you wouldn’t have kept coming
back to the cabin. You found yourself up
against the same problem that we did. We
searched that chimney, high and low—and
found nothing. Neither did you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh shrugged.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’ve talked too much. You won’t get any
more out of me. I wish I had kept my mouth
shut.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Just as you wish, Hanleigh,” remarked
Frank casually. “I think we’re all in the same
fix. You don’t know any more than we do.
But I warn you that we will keep an eye on
you. If you do learn the secret of the chimney,
you won’t keep it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh laughed sneeringly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Then you’ll wait a long time——”</p>
<p class="pindent">He was interrupted by a startling sound.</p>
<p class="pindent">The shrieking wind had proved too much for
the second of the tall trees that towered above
the cabin. It gave way before the gale. With
an ominous crackling, with branches snapping
like pistol shots, it began to fall. The boys
could hear the gathering roar as the great tree
plunged down toward the roof of the cabin.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh leaped to his feet in fright, then
sagged helplessly against the wall as his injured
ankle refused to support his weight.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re done for!” he shouted, in terror.
“The cabin is falling in!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Crash!</p>
<p class="pindent">The tree had struck the chimney. There was
a deluge of stones on the roof. The boys cowered
in the kitchen. If the roof gave, they
might be seriously injured. Hanleigh, a picture
of abject fright, crouched in the corner.</p>
<p class="pindent">With a hideous roar, the chimney collapsed.</p>
<p class="pindent">At the same time, the great tree went sweeping
down past the side of the cabin. When it
struck the chimney its downward course had
been diverted.</p>
<p class="pindent">The falling stones broke great holes in the
roof of the cabin and came crashing down into
the living room. A cloud of dust rose from the
fireplace. A stone crashed to the floor, rebounded
and smashed a pane of glass. It
seemed as though the din would never end.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Let’s get out of here!” Hanleigh was babbling,
white with fear. “Let’s get out. We’ll
be killed! The whole place is coming down
about our ears.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re all right!” snapped Frank. “Be
quiet!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Had any of them been in the living room
they would probably have been seriously injured.
The weight of the fallen chimney had
broken in the roof and stones were still crashing
through to the floor below. The fireplace
was wrecked.</p>
<p class="pindent">At last the uproar died away. Snow was
sifting through the hole in the roof, and when
Frank peeped through the doorway he could
see the jagged fragments of the chimney rising
above the gap.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess it’s all over now,” he said calmly.</p>
<p class="pindent">Chet restrained him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You’re not going in there?” he said.
“Frank, don’t be foolish! You’ll be killed!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“There won’t be any more falling stones.
The rest of the chimney is pretty firm. I’m
anxious to investigate. Where’s that flashlight?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m coming, too,” declared Joe, realizing
Frank’s motive. “This may be a lucky thing
for all of us.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Lucky?” groaned Biff. “Do you call it
lucky to have the chimney fall in and wreck
the place?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ll see.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank picked up the flashlight. He looked
out into the living room again. It was a scene
of desolation. Great stones, and quantities of
débris, dust, and mortar lay all about. Then,
followed by Joe, he left the kitchen and picked
his way among the rubbish over to the fireplace.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch24">CHAPTER XXIV<br/> <span class="sub-head">The Discovery</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">“Do</span> you think we’ll find it, Frank?” asked
Joe Hardy.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I shouldn’t be surprised. If there is anything
hidden in that chimney, the banging-up
it got just now should reveal it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They peered into the fireplace. It was choked
with rubbish.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Better clear some of this away.”</p>
<p class="pindent">They began moving away the stones and
rocks that blocked the entrance. Chet and
Biff, after watching the Hardy boys for a few
moments from the kitchen, came over to help.
They forgot their fears in the eagerness of the
search.</p>
<p class="pindent">Once, while moving away a large stone,
Frank dislodged some others that came down
with a rush. He jumped back just in time.</p>
<p class="pindent">“This business isn’t safe yet,” muttered
Chet dubiously.</p>
<p class="pindent">However, the boys went on with the work,
and soon cleared out the fireplace, with no further
mishap. Frank entered the opening and
peered up.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Clear daylight ahead!” he called.</p>
<p class="pindent">The tall chimney having collapsed, he could
see the white snow swirling just a few yards
above. He switched on his flashlight and examined
the interior.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then he gave an exclamation of satisfaction.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It’s all cracked and broken,” he reported.
“I’m going up.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Be careful,” advised Biff nervously.</p>
<p class="pindent">But Frank was already scrambling up into
the fireplace. The others waited. They
jumped apprehensively when his struggling
feet kicked loose some more stones that came
plunging down into the rest of the débris.</p>
<p class="pindent">For a while, there was silence.</p>
<p class="pindent">Suddenly, there was a muffled shout from the
chimney.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I have it!” yelled Frank, in excitement.
“It’s here!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The others heard him struggling for a moment;
then came a further shower of stones
and mortar.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Got it!” shouted Frank triumphantly.</p>
<p class="pindent">Then he came scrambling down into the fireplace
again. His hands and face were black
with soot, his clothes were ruined, but he bore
in his hands an object that brought shouts of
delight from the boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">“The rosewood box!” declared Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank nodded.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Elroy Jefferson’s stamp collection!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The others crowded around him. Frank held
the box up. It was a beautiful object, and although
it had been hidden in the chimney for
many years, its rosewood surface was almost
as lustrous as on the day it was first concealed.
Great excitement prevailed. The mystery of
the chimney had been solved. The boys all
talked at once. All clamored that the box be
opened.</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank undid the catch. They looked inside.</p>
<p class="pindent">There, neatly arranged on sheets, were the
rare stamps that had been Elroy Jefferson’s
pride—the stamps that were worth a fortune!</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hurrah!” shouted Biff. Chet and Joe did
a dance of joy. Frank closed the lid of the
rosewood box.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I found it right at the place mentioned in
the cipher,” he said. “We didn’t discover it
before, because the box had been hidden in a
hollow right in the middle of one of the stones,
and it had been mortared up when they were
building the chimney. The shaking-up the
chimney got a little while ago had broken the
mortar and dislodged the stone. When I turned
the flashlight on it I could plainly see the hollow
and I knew something was hidden there.
I dusted away the mortar, pried the stone up a
little—and there was the box!”</p>
<p class="pindent">A harsh voice interrupted him.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What’s that? You found it? Give it here!
That box is mine!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh was standing in the kitchen doorway.
His face was livid with rage.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It belongs to Elroy Jefferson,” returned
Frank, “and we are going to return it to him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh tried to hobble over toward them,
but his ankle gave him such pain that he abandoned
the attempt and clung to the wall for
support.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I tell you, it’s mine!” he screamed. “You
have no right to take it! My uncle left that box
to me in his will.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He left it to you on condition that you return
it to Mr. Jefferson, from whom he stole
it,” snapped Frank. “You haven’t a chance
to claim it, Hanleigh. We have the box and we
intend to give it back to its owner.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh glared at them. Then he shrugged.</p>
<p class="pindent">“If only this ankle of mine was better, I’d
show you!” he rasped. “It’s downright robbery,
that’s what it is. I’ll take this matter
into the courts and make you give it up to me.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank laughed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You won’t go into any court over this affair,
Hanleigh. You know it would be the
worse for you. We saw the letter you got from
the lawyers, telling you that the box must be
returned to Mr. Jefferson. Wait until we tell
our story. You’ll be lucky if you aren’t arrested.
You never intended to live up to those
instructions at all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">This threat frightened Hanleigh. His face
was pale.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I did,” he whined. “I meant to give it
back to Mr. Jefferson. Let me have the box,
boys, and I’ll see that he gets it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“No chance! The box is a lot safer with us
than it is with you. We found it and we’re
going to give it back. You’d better sit down,
Hanleigh, and tell us all about it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh hesitated. Then he hobbled over
to one of the beds and sat down.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess the game is up,” he admitted
heavily.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Tell us what you know about this affair,
and we’ll let the whole business drop, as far
as you are concerned,” Frank promised. “If
you don’t tell us we’ll simply let the police take
action—and you know what that will mean,” he
added significantly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well,” said Hanleigh, at last, “I suppose
there is nothing else for me to do. With any
luck at all, I might have had that box, and I
would have been miles away by this time.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“How did it get here, in the first place?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh began his story.</p>
<p class="pindent">“My uncle, John Sparewell,” he said, “was
a servant in the home of Elroy Jefferson for
many years. He was in financial difficulties at
one time and when he learned about the valuable
stamp collection he thought that if he stole
it and sold it he might be able to realize enough
money to pay off his debts. He knew that the
collection was kept in a small safe in the house,
so he watched his chance. He was highly
trusted by Mr. Jefferson, so it was not long before
he had the opportunity he was waiting for.
The safe was left unlocked one afternoon, so
my uncle slipped into the study, took the box,
put on his hat and coat and left the house.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And never went back,” said Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“He never returned. He had laid his plans
very carefully, and he knew he might have to
wait until the hue and cry died down before he
would be able to dispose of the stamps, so he
fled to a little village down on the sea-coast,
and he stayed in hiding there for several
months. He learned that the police were looking
for him and then he found that a full description
of the stamps had been circulated and
that he would certainly be arrested if he ever
tried to get rid of them to any recognized
dealer. As a matter of fact, when he left the
village where he had been hiding and went to
New York, he narrowly escaped being arrested
merely because he went to one of the dealers in
that city and asked him what the stamps would
be worth. The dealer became suspicious and
notified the police, but my uncle saw his danger
in time and cleared out.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And he never sold the stamps.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“He couldn’t. It was too dangerous. He
made up his mind to return them to Elroy Jefferson.
So he took the rosewood box and came
back to Bayport.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Why didn’t he return them?” asked Frank,
in surprise.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Mr. Jefferson was away. He had gone to
Europe on one of his periodical collecting trips.
Then my uncle was afraid he might be recognized
around Bayport and he knew that if he
were arrested and the stamps found on him, no
one would believe that he had meant to give
them back. So he determined to hide them
until he would have a chance to see Mr. Jefferson.
At this time, Cabin Island had been purchased,
and the cabin was being built. One
day, my uncle was prowling about the Jefferson
place, wondering if he could steal into the
house and return the box without being seen,
when Mrs. Jefferson saw him. He did not know
if he had been recognized, but he went away.
A little while later, he saw her leave the house
with the gardener, and he saw them looking for
him. He became frightened, and he hired a
boat and went out into the bay. But evidently
they traced him, for in a little while Mrs. Jefferson
and the gardener set out in their own
boat.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh looked gloomily at the floor.</p>
<p class="pindent">“My uncle was afraid that they would turn
him over to the police if they caught him with
the rosewood box. He wanted to talk to Elroy
Jefferson and have the charge against him
withdrawn. So he decided to flee, but the only
place he could think of just then was Cabin
Island. So he went there in the boat. The
cabin was just being built at this time, as I
said, and the fireplace and chimney had not
been finished. The masons had the chimney
just about half completed. As it was a Sunday,
the island was deserted that day. Fearing that
he might be trapped on the island, with the box
in his possession, he hid it in a hollow of one
of the stones and covered it over with mortar,
intending to come back for it later. Then he
got away from the island before Mrs. Jefferson
overtook him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Didn’t he go back later?” asked Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh nodded. “He went back next day.
But the masons were back at work, completing
the chimney. He did not have a chance to get
near the place. He remained hidden on the
island all day until they went home that night.
Then he went up to the cabin to recover the
box. He found that more stones had been
placed over the stone where he had hidden the
box. They had been securely mortared. The
box was sealed up. In spite of all he could do,
he could not get the box again. He came back
to the island several times that week but he
had no success. Every day, the masons did
more work on the chimney, and every day his
chances grew less. So he left Bayport and went
to a little village in Maine, where he lived for a
number of years. He did not try to get in
touch with Elroy Jefferson again. Then, about
five years ago, he determined to make another
effort to recover the box and he came back,
making several trips to the island, but although
he tried to get at the box from inside
the chimney, he failed. When he died, the box
had not been recovered, although my uncle had
repented bitterly of his foolish crime. In his
will, he left his property to me and he also left
a sealed letter containing the confession I have
just told you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And he asked you to recover the box.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Yes. But I wanted it for myself. I had become
acquainted with a man who said he could
dispose of it for me. He offered me fifty thousand
dollars for the collection.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Fifty thousand dollars!” exclaimed the
boys.</p>
<p class="pindent">“It is worth even more than that, for many
of the stamps have increased in value since the
year they disappeared. I don’t suppose Elroy
Jefferson would sell it at any price. My uncle
was dead, I was the only person who knew
where the stamps were hidden, so I made up
my mind to get them for myself. I came to the
island, but I soon saw that the only way I could
get at the box would be to wreck the chimney.
I went to Elroy Jefferson and made him an
offer for the cabin. I did not have the eight
thousand dollars I offered him, but I thought
that if he accepted, I could give him a small
cash payment, occupy the island long enough
to get possession of the stamps, and then I
would clear out. But he wouldn’t sell. So then
I determined to get the stamps by hook or by
crook——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Mostly crook!” interrupted Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">Hanleigh flashed him a glance of hatred.</p>
<p class="pindent">“You boys spoiled my game!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We were almost ready to give up,” Frank
told him. “If you hadn’t been so persistent
we might have left the island and you might
have got the stamps after all.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I was afraid you would find them first,”
said Hanleigh. “When I lost that notebook, I
was afraid you would solve the cipher and get
the box before I had a chance. Well, I took a
long chance, and I lost. That’s the whole
story. Now what are you going to do?”</p>
<p class="pindent">He glared at them defiantly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“First of all,” Frank decided. “We are
going to wait until this storm dies down. Then
we are going to take you back to Bayport.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Not to the police!” shouted Hanleigh, in
terror.</p>
<p class="pindent">“No—not to the police. I imagine Mr. Jefferson
will be content with getting the stamps
back. We promised not to turn you over to
the police if you confessed, and we’ll keep our
promise. But you must get out of Bayport.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I never want to see the place again,”
groaned Hanleigh.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We are going to explain the whole affair to
Mr. Jefferson and return the stamps to him. It
will be a return for his kindness in letting us
have the island for our outing.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I guess our outing is finished,” remarked
Chet regretfully, with a glance at the ruined
roof.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We didn’t have many more days to stay,
anyway,” consoled Frank. “And I’d rather
get to the bottom of a mystery like this than
have all the outings in the world.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“That’s right,” agreed his brother.</p>
<div><h1 id="ch25">CHAPTER XXV<br/> <span class="sub-head">Elroy Jefferson Is Pleased</span></h1></div>
<p class="noindent"><span class="lead-in">The</span> storm died down early that afternoon,
and the chums left the island and set out for
Bayport, with the injured Hanleigh wrapped
in blankets on one of the ice-boats. Hanleigh
was completely beaten. When he got back to
Bayport he managed to make his way to the
railway station, caught the first train, and was
never seen in the city again. It was fortunate
for him that he left when he did. The Hardy
boys made no report to the police, so he had
nothing to fear from that quarter, but Tad
Carson and Ike Nash, wrathful at the loss of
their boat, were anxious to find their erstwhile
employer.</p>
<p class="pindent">The four chums went up to the Jefferson
home together. They found Mr. Jefferson in
the library, reading. He greeted them kindly.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Well, boys,” he said, “what brings you
back from Cabin Island so soon? Haven’t you
been enjoying yourselves!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’ve had a fine time, sir,” said Frank,
who acted as spokesman. “We came back because
we found something there that might
interest you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Something that might interest me?” asked
Mr. Jefferson, puzzled. “I can’t imagine what
on earth it can be. Sit down and tell me all
about it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank produced the rosewood box.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Do you recognize this, sir?”</p>
<p class="pindent">Elroy Jefferson gazed at the box incredulously.</p>
<p class="pindent">“My stamps!” he exclaimed. “My precious
stamp collection!”</p>
<p class="pindent">With trembling hands, he seized the box and
opened it. When he saw that the stamps were
undamaged, and exactly as he had last seen
them, his joy knew no bounds.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Tell me!” he demanded, in excitement.
“Tell me where you found them? On the
island?”</p>
<p class="pindent">“We found them on Cabin Island,” replied
Frank, “hidden in the old chimney, among the
stones. They have been there for years.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Elroy Jefferson was amazed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“But how did you learn they were there? I
never suspected for a moment. Why, I had
given them up for lost. You can’t imagine
what this means to me, boys. That stamp collection
is priceless. It was one of the tragedies
of my life when the rosewood box was stolen.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Then the boys told him the full story of their
adventures on Cabin Island, beginning with
their first encounter with Hanleigh and concluding
with their discovery of the rosewood
box after the chimney had been wrecked by the
storm.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I’m afraid the cabin is in a bit of a mess,”
said Frank; “but I don’t think we’d have
found the stamps at all if things had not happened
the way they did.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“I am of course sorry about the cabin,” said
Mr. Jefferson. “But these stamps mean more
to me than that. The cabin can be fixed up
for a few dollars. So that was why Hanleigh
was so anxious to buy the place! The rascal!
John Sparewell’s nephew! I always knew
Sparewell had stolen the rosewood box but I
never dreamed he had hidden it so near at
hand.”</p>
<p class="pindent">The old gentleman’s gratification was inspiring.
The boys had known that he would be
pleased at the return of his treasured stamp
collection but they had not expected that it
would give him the degree of pleasure which
it evidently did. He gazed at the stamps constantly,
held them up to the light, admired
them, patted the boys on the back, and finally
sat down at his desk.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t do very much to express my appreciation,”
he said, “but I want you boys to accept
a little reward. I have spent hundreds of
dollars trying to get my collection back. I even
engaged professional detectives, who failed. If
any one ever has need of a detective I’ll certainly
recommend the Hardy boys to him.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Frank laughed.</p>
<p class="pindent">“We’re not professionals, sir,” he said.
“We like tackling a good mystery, though.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“And you tackle them successfully. First,
my automobile. Now, my stamps. Very few
lads would have made good use of the slim
clues you had.”</p>
<p class="pindent">He drew out his check book and wrote busily
for a few minutes.</p>
<p class="pindent">“As for a reward,” put in Joe, “we didn’t
expect anything, Mr. Jefferson. It was fun.
And, anyway, you’ve been awfully good to us,
letting us have the cabin for our outing——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Nonsense!”</p>
<p class="pindent">Mr. Jefferson swung around in his chair. He
gave each of the Hardy boys a check. Then
he wrote again for a few minutes and made a
similar present to Biff and Chet.</p>
<p class="pindent">“But this is for two hundred dollars!” exclaimed
Frank, in amazement, as he looked at
his check.</p>
<p class="pindent">“And so is mine,” said Joe.</p>
<p class="pindent">“What of it?” said Mr. Jefferson. “My
stamp collection is worth much more than
that.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“But,” stammered Chet, “I didn’t do anything.
The Hardy boys deserve any rewards
you care to give them, but Biff and I didn’t do
much. A hundred dollars, Mr. Jefferson—why,
I can’t take it!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Neither can I,” added Biff, although he
looked longingly at the check Mr. Jefferson had
given him. “The Hardy boys deserve all the
credit.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Mr. Jefferson quietly waved their objections
aside.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I realize they deserve most of the credit,”
he said, “because they did the detective work.
But you lads helped a lot, too——”</p>
<p class="pindent">“They certainly did!” Joe interpolated, with
great earnestness.</p>
<p class="pindent">“So you mustn’t spoil my pleasure in having
my stamps back by refusing what little reward
I can give you.”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Gee!” said Chet, in delight. “I can do a
lot of things with a hundred dollars! Isn’t
it great!”</p>
<p class="pindent">“Furthermore,” continued Elroy Jefferson,
“I want you boys to understand that Cabin
Island is at your disposal at any time. I’ll have
the cabin fixed up immediately and if you care
to go there at any other time during the winter,
you are welcome. And I imagine it will be a
pleasant place for a vacation outing next summer.
From now on, you may consider the
cabin as your own. I never use the place, and
it will give me a great deal of pleasure if I
know good use is being made of it.”</p>
<p class="pindent">Biff forgot himself.</p>
<p class="pindent">“Hurrah!” he yelled. “Hurrah! You’re a
prince, Mr. Jefferson!”</p>
<p class="pindent">The old gentleman beamed with pleasure.</p>
<p class="pindent">“I can’t think of any one I would rather
have as my guests on Cabin Island,” he said,
“than the Hardy boys and their chums.”</p>
