<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: Suspicious Actions</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Suspicious Actions</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“Well, I guess that explains why Tad Carson and Ike Nash were heading in this direction the day Hanleigh ordered us off the island,” Frank Hardy said, when the boys were out of earshot.</p>
			<p>“They were on their way to bring Hanleigh back to town,” agreed Joe.</p>
			<p>“He’s been using their iceboat to get back and forth to Cabin Island.”</p>
			<p>“Wonder what’s the big idea,” remarked Chet. “They don’t seem to know what he’s up to.”</p>
			<p>“No, but we will⁠—and mighty soon. We’re responsible for the cabin now, so it’s up to us to find out what Hanleigh is doing there.”</p>
			<p>Biff looked dubious.</p>
			<p>“He won’t tell us, you can depend on that. Probably he’ll tell us to clear out of here.”</p>
			<p>“What if he does? We now know he hasn’t any authority. I’ll tell you what we ought to do, fellows,” said Frank. “We should try and catch our friend Hanleigh off his guard. If we detour around through the woods, we can come out at the back of the cabin. He’ll never hear us coming through the snow. We’ll take a peep through one of the windows and see what it’s all about.”</p>
			<p>“That’s a long way around,” grumbled Chet.</p>
			<p>“It won’t take us far out of our way. The snow isn’t very deep. We can make it easily enough. Come on.”</p>
			<p>Under Frank’s leadership, the boys set out into the woods, trudging through the snow, detouring in order that they would not emerge at the front of the cabin. At last they were within sight of the little building. It seemed utterly deserted, but the boys were quite convinced, from what they had overheard at the boathouse, that Hanleigh was somewhere in the immediate neighborhood. They advanced cautiously.</p>
			<p>At the rear of the cabin was a small window. They made this their objective. In the light snow their footfalls made no sound.</p>
			<p>Frank took the lead. The others stood back for a moment while he went ahead, pressing close to the cabin wall. When he was at the window, he peeped in carefully. Frank gazed into the interior of the building for a short time. Then he turned and beckoned to his companions.</p>
			<p>They came forward. Together, the boys looked into the cabin.</p>
			<p>The interior design of the building was simple. One long room, with a huge stone fireplace, ran the length of the cabin. Bedrooms and a kitchen led off to the side. From the rear window the boys could see every detail of the main room, and as they now looked they could see a man standing before the fireplace.</p>
			<p>Although the man had his back turned to them, they had little doubt but that he was Hanleigh. Frank and Joe nudged one another in excitement.</p>
			<p>Hanleigh was quite unconscious that he was being watched. He stood before the fireplace, a long, slender stick in his hand. He stepped forward, measured a section of the stone chimney, stepped back and regarded the measured part, got down on his hands and knees and measured the base. Once in a while he shook his head in disgust and muttered something that the boys could not overhear.</p>
			<p>The boys were puzzled. Why should Hanleigh be measuring the fireplace in this abandoned cabin?</p>
			<p>In their eagerness, they forgot caution and gradually crowded closer and closer together until all four faces were pressed full against the windowpane. Had Hanleigh chanced to turn their way he would have seen them in a moment.</p>
			<p>However, the man seemed too greatly occupied. He was concerned just then with the fireplace and evidently he considered himself quite safe from observation. Back and forth he went, examining the interior and exterior of the fireplace and the chimney, measuring it from every possible angle, even counting the number of stones. He took an envelope from his pocket and jotted down figures on the back of it.</p>
			<p>Suddenly, there was a gust of wind.</p>
			<p>The side door of the cabin, through which Hanleigh had evidently entered, blew wide open.</p>
			<p>With a mutter of astonishment, the man swung around. He looked toward the door.</p>
			<p>The Hardy boys and their chums ducked beneath the level of the window sill. But they were too late.</p>
			<p>Hanleigh had seen them. They heard a shout of consternation. Then they heard heavy footsteps on the cabin floor. The door slammed. Hanleigh came running around the side of the building.</p>
			<p>“Hold your ground!” advised Frank quietly to his companions. “Don’t let him bluff us.”</p>
			<p>Hanleigh, red with wrath, confronted them. He recognized the Hardy boys at once.</p>
			<p>“Spying on me, are you?” he shouted. “I thought I told you boys to stay away from this island.”</p>
			<p>“You told us,” returned Frank coolly.</p>
			<p>“Then what do you mean by this?” roared Hanleigh. “What do you mean by coming back here again? I’ve a good mind to horsewhip the whole crowd of you. A bunch of meddling youngsters! Now get out of here and stay away. If I catch you fellows on this island again, I’ll⁠—I’ll⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You’ll do nothing, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hanleigh,” said Frank.</p>
			<p>The man looked at them suspiciously.</p>
			<p>“How do you know my name?” he demanded.</p>
			<p>“It doesn’t matter how we come to know your name. But we’re here to tell you this, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hanleigh⁠—you have no right to order us off the island. As a matter of fact, it works the other way.”</p>
			<p>“What?”</p>
			<p>“We’re not trespassing. You are. You have no right to be on this island at all. And you certainly have no right to be in this cabin.”</p>
			<p>“Why, you young whippersnapper!” choked Hanleigh. “I’ll show you if I have any right to be here!”</p>
			<p>“You can’t show us. What are you doing here, anyway?”</p>
			<p>“None of your business!”</p>
			<p>“It <em>is</em> our business.” Frank reached in his pocket and produced the key to the cabin. “See this key. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson gave it to us. We’re in charge of Cabin Island from now on. I’d advise you to clear out unless you want us to report the matter to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson. He can very easily have you prosecuted for trespassing on the island. He told us you had been given no permission to come here.”</p>
			<p>Hanleigh was at a loss for words. This development came as a complete surprise to him.</p>
			<p>“It’s a⁠—a lie!” he gasped finally.</p>
			<p>“There’s the key!” piped Chet. “Laugh that off.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t believe Jefferson gave you that key at all.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, he did. We know more about you than you think, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hanleigh. We know you’ve been trying to buy this place and we know <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson refused your offer. We were at his house the day you offered him eight thousand dollars for the place and he turned you down. Does that look as if we don’t know what we’re talking about?”</p>
			<p>“What do you know about this place?” demanded Hanleigh.</p>
			<p>“Nothing except what we’ve told you,” Frank continued. “We would like to know, though, just why it is so interesting to you.”</p>
			<p>The shot went home. Hanleigh licked his lips nervously, then stared at the boys in silence for a while before replying:</p>
			<p>“It isn’t interesting to me,” he said lamely. “That is⁠—except as a cabin I’d like to buy.”</p>
			<p>“Was that why you were measuring the fireplace so carefully?” put in Biff dryly.</p>
			<p>“I’m not going to argue about it. I’m going back to town and take up this matter with Jefferson. He gave me to understand that he wanted to sell the island, but he wants too much money for it. That’s why I came out here to look the place over.”</p>
			<p>“You seem to come out quite often,” remarked Frank. “Well, you’ll find us in charge here from now on. Any time you can bring us a note signed by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jefferson, stating that you have permission to visit the place, we’ll let you in. Just now, though, I think you’d better clear out.”</p>
			<p>Hanleigh clenched his fists, glared at the boys for a moment, and then turned on his heel. Without another word, he went away. The boys followed him around the side of the cabin and watched him as he strode heavily down the slope, muttering to himself.</p>
			<p>“We’ll see that he does go away,” declared Frank.</p>
			<p>The boys followed.</p>
			<p>Near the edge of the cliff they saw Hanleigh turn and look back. He seemed surprised to find that they had followed him. Then, evidently deciding that further opposition was useless, he went on down the path that led toward the boathouse at the base of the cliff.</p>
			<p>The boys stood watching until he reached the boathouse, and they watched until he emerged again with Tad Carson and Ike Nash. The trio stood looking up for a moment, and Hanleigh shook his fist in their direction.</p>
			<p>“Merry Christmas!” shouted Chet.</p>
			<p>If Hanleigh heard the greeting, he did not return it in kind.</p>
			<p>The interlopers went on down the shore toward the place where they had left their iceboat. They vanished around the bend. After a while, the boys saw the iceboat emerge into the open bay and recede swiftly in the direction of Bayport.</p>
			<p>“That’s that!” exclaimed Biff cheerfully.</p>
			<p>“He didn’t have a leg to stand on, did he?” added Chet.</p>
			<p>“I don’t think we’re through with Hanleigh yet,” said Frank thoughtfully. “He isn’t the sort to back down so easily at the first sign of fight. I have an idea that we’ll see him on Cabin Island again before very long.”</p>
			<p>“Let him come,” said Chet. “We have the authority. All he has is nerve. Let’s put the iceboats up in the bay and get our stuff unloaded.”</p>
			<p>The boys turned and went back toward their iceboats.</p>
			<p>“Just the same,” muttered Joe, “I’d like to know what he was up to, measuring that fireplace so carefully.”</p>
			<p>Joe’s thought was echoed in the minds of all. There was some mystery about Hanleigh’s visits to Cabin Island.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
